













COOL2013 - Table of Session: THAM1HA (Beam Crystallisation & Laser Cooling)


THAM1HA —  Beam Crystallisation & Laser Cooling   (13-Jun-13   08:30—10:00)
Chair: M. Steck, GSI, Darmstadt, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



THAM1HA01
Beam Crystallization - Are We There Yet?
152


 

H. Okamoto
                       HU/AdSM, Higashi-Hiroshima, Japan

 


 

A brief review is made of Coulomb crystallization of a charged particle beam circulating in a storage ring at high speed. An ideal crystalline state is reached when the beam is cooled to near the absolute zero temperature. The corresponding emittance is also nearly zero, which means that the crystalline beam has the highest quality achievable in principle. Through past theoretical studies, it has been revealed that beam crystallization is feasible only in a storage ring that satisfies several physical conditions. This talk summarizes those necessary conditions and illustrates why they are so important in establishing the ultimate state of a beam.

 


 



THAM1HA02
Latest Results of Experimental Approach to Ultra-cold Beam at S-LSR
157


 

A. Noda, M. Nakao, H. Souda, H. Tongu
                       Kyoto ICR, Uji, Kyoto, Japan
M. Grieser
                       MPI-K, Heidelberg, Germany
Z.Q. He
                       TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China
K. Jimbo
                       Kyoto University, Institute for Advanced Energy, Kyoto, Japan
H. Okamoto, K. Osaki
                       HU/AdSM, Higashi-Hiroshima, Japan
Y. Yuri
                       JAEA/TARRI, Gunma-ken, Japan

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by Advanced Compact Accelerator Development project by MEXT. It is also supported by GCOE program at Department of Physics and Collaborative program of ICR, Kyoto University
Utilizing S-LSR which has a super-periodicity of 6 and is designed to be tough against resonant perturbation to the circulating beam, we have tried to realize as low as possible temperatures with a laser cooled 40keV 24Mg+ ion beam. With the proposed theoretical Synchro-Betatron Resonance Coupling scheme*, we have experimentally demonstrated the capability of active indirect transverse laser cooling*, which is limited by heating due to intra-beam scattering (IBS). In order to redece the heating by IBS, we have established a scheme to control the circulating ion beam intensity down to ~104 by scraping the outskirt of the beam with a horizontally moving scraper, which enabled us to cool down the transverse beam temperature down to ~ 20 K and ~30 K for the horizontal and vertical directions, respectively for the operation tune without H-V coupling***. In the present paper I would like to present our recent results with H-V coupling in addition to longitudinal and horizontal coupling aiming at a further reduction of the beam transverse temperature.
* H. Okamoto, A.M. Sessler and D. Möhl, Phys. Rev. Lett. 72, 3977(1994).  ** M. Nakao et al., Phys. Rev. ST-AB, 15 (2012) 110102. *** H. Souda et al., Jpan. J. Appl. Phys. in print.

 






Slides THAM1HA02 [6.120 MB]
        
 


 



THAM1HA03
Simulation Study on Transverse Laser Cooling and Crystallization of Heavy-Ion Beams at the Cooler Storage Ring S-LSR
162


 

Y. Yuri
                       JAEA/TARRI, Gunma-ken, Japan
Z.Q. He
                       Tsinghua University, Beijing, People's Republic of China
K. Jimbo
                       Kyoto University, Institute for Advanced Energy, Kyoto, Japan
M. Nakao, A. Noda, H. Souda, H. Tongu
                       Kyoto ICR, Uji, Kyoto, Japan
H. Okamoto, K. Osaki
                       HU/AdSM, Higashi-Hiroshima, Japan

 


 

Recently, efficient transverse laser cooling of a low-intensity heavy-ion beam has been accomplished experimentally by means of the resonant coupling method at the cooler storage ring S-LSR in Kyoto University [1]. In parallel with the experimental effort, multi-dimensional laser cooling of the ion beam has been studied also numerically using the molecular dynamics (MD) simulation code that incorporates the stochastic interaction between ions and laser photons in order to search optimum laser-cooling conditions and verify the observation result in the experiment. In this presentation, the latest MD simulation result is reported on the characteristics of 40 keV 24Mg+ ion beams laser-cooled in S-LSR. It is shown that, in spite of the limited experimental conditions of the cooling laser such as low power, fixed frequency, and short cooling section, the three-dimensionally low-temperature ion beam is obtained.
[1] H. Souda, et al., Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., in press

 






Slides THAM1HA03 [5.578 MB]
        
 


 



THAM1HA04
Laser Cooling of Relativistic C3+ Ion Beams with a Large Initial Momentum Spread
166


 

D.F.A. Winters, C.J. Clark, C. Dimopoulou, T. Giacomini, C. Kozhuharov, T. Kühl, Yu.A. Litvinov, M. Lochmann, W. Nörtershäuser, F. Nolden, R.M. Sanchez Alarcon, M.S. Sanjari, M. Steck, T. Stöhlker, J. Ullmann
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
T. Beck, G. Birkl, B. Rein, S. Tichelmann, T. Walther
                       TU Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany
M.H. Bussmann, U. Schramm, M. Seltmann
                       Helmholtz-Zentrum Dresden-Rossendorf (HZDR), Institute of Radiation Physics, Dresden, Germany
X. Ma, W.Q. Wen, J. Yang, D. Zhang
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China
M. Siebold
                       HZDR, Dresden, Germany

 


 

We present new results on broadband laser cooling of stored relativistic C3+ ion beams at the ESR in Darmstadt. For the first time we could show laser cooling of bunched relativistic ion beams using a UV-laser which could scan over a very large range and thus cool all the ions in the ‘bucket’. This scheme is much more versatile than a previous scheme, where the bunching frequency was scanned relative to a fixed laser frequency. We have also demonstrated that this cooling scheme works without pre-electron cooling, which is a pre-requisite for its general application to future storage rings and synchrotrons, such as the HESR and the SIS100 at FAIR. We also present results from in vacuo UV-fluorescence detectors, which have proven to be very effective.

 






Slides THAM1HA04 [4.231 MB]
        
 


 




