













COOL2015 - Table of Session: THZAUD (Andy Sessler Memorial Session)


THZAUD —  Andy Sessler Memorial Session   (01-Oct-15   15:50—17:20)
Chair: A.N. Skrinsky, BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia


Paper
Title
Page



THZAUD01
Crystalline Beam Studies with Andy Sessler
155


 

J. Wei
                       FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA
X.-P. Li
                       Skyworks Solutions, Inc., Newbury Park. California, USA
H. Okamoto
                       HU/AdSM, Higashi-Hiroshima, Japan

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science under Cooperative Agreement DE-SC0000661 and the National Science Foundation, under Cooperative Agreement PHY-1102511.
For over two decades since 1992, Andy Sessler worked with us as a hobby on the topic of crystallization of charged ion beams and cooling methods. In this paper, we review the studies jointly performed with Andy highlighting major findings and challenges, and discuss current status and possible future topics and directions.

 






Slides THZAUD01 [20.501 MB]
        
 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ DOI:10.18429/JACoW-COOL2015-THZAUD01

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



THZAUD02
Cooling and Phase Space Manipulation of Nonneutral Plasmas for Antihydrogen Synthesis
 


 

J.S. Wurtele
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA

 


 

The ALPHA collaboration in CERN synthesizes antihydrogen by combining antiprotons with positrons in nested Penning-Malmberg traps. Roughly one or two antihydrogen are synthesized from the ~107 antiprotons that are provided by each cycle of the CERN Antiproton Deccelerator. Cooling is central to our success. Cooling methods used by ALPHA include collisional cooling of antiprotons on cold pre-trapped electrons, electrons and positrons radiative cooling by cyclotron emission, and evaporative cooling. The neutral trap depth for antihydrogen confinement is 0.54K, which many orders of magnitude smaller than the initial energy, ~5MeV, of the antiprotons provided by CERN. The potential energy associated with self-fields of the charged particles is a factor of 102-104 greater than the neutral trap depth. Moreover, there is heating associated with various phase space manipulations, include compression and mixing. Andy Sessler was, up until his last years, a fairly regular attendee of our group meetings and an ALPHA enthusiast. The story of cooling on ALPHA will be interspersed with stories about Andy's thoughts on cooling, physics, and life in general.

 






Slides THZAUD02 [16.035 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




