













COOL2013 - Table of Session: FRAM1HA (Physics With Cold Beams)


FRAM1HA —  Physics With Cold Beams   (14-Jun-13   08:30—10:00)
Chair: M. Grieser, MPI-K, Heidelberg, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



FRAM1HA01
Recent Experimental Results and Techniques Deployed on the CERN Antiproton Decelerator (AD) Complex
 


 

S. Haider
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

At CERN's AD, several experiments have recently achieved a number of breakthroughs, be it in the area of trapping antihydrogen, carrying out first spectroscopy of antihydrogen, or developing techniques which have led to an significantly improved measurement of the magnetic moment of antiprotons. An overview will be given of these recent results and of the techniques deployed to reach them, as well as an outlook for the coming years.

 






Slides FRAM1HA01 [4.149 MB]
        
 


 



FRAM1HA02
Atomic Physics in Traps
 


 

W. Quint
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

Funding: Supported by BMBF, DFG, the Helmholtz Association, HGS-HIRE, IMPRS-QD, and the Max-Planck Society.
Precise experiments on cooled individual particles in Penning traps have opened opportunities for fundamental tests of physical theories. The determination of the magnetic moment of the electron bound in highly charged ions is a sensitive test of the theory of bound-state quantum electrodynamics in the strong-field regime. The observation of spin flips with a single trapped proton has paved the way for a comparison of the proton and antiproton magnetic moments as a test of CPT invariance. At the same time, such precision experiments make it possible to determine fundamental constants, like the electron mass, the fine-structure constant alpha, and the proton magnetic moment. The cooling methods employed in precision trap experiments comprise resistive cooling, electronic feedback cooling to sub-K temperatures, sympathetic cooling to mK temperatures by laser-cooled ions, and electron cooling.
*S. Sturm et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 023002 (2011).  **A. Wagner et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 033003 (2013). 

 






Slides FRAM1HA02 [5.975 MB]
        
 


 



FRAM1HA03
Heavy Molecular Ion Beams in Electron Cooler Storage Rings
 


 

C. Krantz, K. Blaum, M. Grieser, D. Orlov, A. Shornikov, S. Vogel, A. Wolf
                       MPI-K, Heidelberg, Germany
A.S. Jaroshevich, A.S. Terekhov
                       ISP, Novosibirsk, Russia
O. Novotny
                       Columbia University, New York, USA

 


 

Since 2006, the experimental electron cooler of the Heidelberg TSR heavy-ion storage ring operated using a cryogenic photo cathode source, delivering dc electron beams of ~1 meV/k transverse temperature. This setup has paved the way to efficient electron cooling of slow molecular ions using velocity-matched electron beams of only a few tens of eV of kinetic energy. Low electron temperature is a strict requirement in this kind of application as, at increasing mass-to-charge ratio of the ions, the electron density - and hence the available cooling force - becomes limited by the maximum storage velocity. The electron cooler of the Cryogenic Storage Ring CSR, presently in construction in Heidelberg, will be based on the same emitter cathode and will reduce the low-energy limit of the electron cooling technique even further, operating at electron beam energies down to 1 eV.

 






Slides FRAM1HA03 [9.915 MB]
        
 


 




