













COOL2013 - Table of Session: TUAM2HA (Electron Cooling I (medium & high energy))


TUAM2HA —  Electron Cooling I (medium & high energy)   (11-Jun-13   10:30—12:30)
Chair: I.N. Meshkov, JINR/DLNP, Dubna, Moscow region, Russia


Paper
Title
Page



TUAM2HA01
Novel Ideas in Electron Cooling
55


 

V.V. Parkhomchuk
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

The development of electron cooling started in 1966 from a proposal by G.I. Budker who used this system for proton-proton colliders. Now the electron cooling used for many ions accelerators for shrinking ion beam emittance and for accumulation rare ions beam at very broad energy range. Many ideas was used for improved the cooling power and many problems was opened. The new ideas for extended the energy of cooled beam will discuss at the report. The energy of cooler up to 8 GeV still required for HESR for suppress the scattering antiproton in inner target. The experience obtain at time of the commissioning 2 MeV cooler for COSY are used. These results are practical test bench for estimation different solutions for the cooling systems.

 






Slides TUAM2HA01 [2.898 MB]
        
 


 



TUAM2HA02
FERMILAB’s Experience with a High-Energy Electron Cooler
60


 

L.R. Prost, S. Nagaitsev
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: Operated by Fermi Research Alliance, LLC under Contract No. DE-AC02-07CH11359 with the United States Department of Energy
The Recycler ring at Fermilab served as a repository of 8 GeV antiprotons destined for collision in the Tevatron, a proton-antiproton collider. From 2005 to 2011, the world’s only relativistic electron cooling system was used to cool the antiprotons for accumulation and preparation of bunches before injection into the collider ring. With a 4.3 MeV, 0.1 A DC electron beam, a weak continuous longitudinal magnetic field in the cooling section and lumped focusing elsewhere, this unique electron cooler allowed for significant improvements in the Tevatron luminosity, yet also presented numerous challenges, such as achieving reliable operation of a high-voltage, high-power electrostatic accelerator in a high-current recirculation mode. In this paper, we discuss the experience of running this unique machine.

 






Slides TUAM2HA02 [2.851 MB]
        
 


 



TUAM2HA03
Electron Cooler R&D at Helmholtz-Institut Mainz
65


 

K. Aulenbacher, M.W. Bruker, J. Dietrich, S. Friederich, A. Hofmann, T. Weilbach
                       HIM, Mainz, Germany

 


 

Funding: Helmholtz Gesllschaft deutscher Forschungszentren
The Accelerator group at Helmholtz Institut Mainz supports the construction of the HESR storage ring at FAIR. One of our main goals is to contribute to the development of a magnetized electron cooler for the energy range between 4 and 8 MeV, allowing to cool antiprotons up to maximum momentum available at HESR. Technical challenges include handling the beam current, extreme collector efficiency and non-invasive beam diagnostics. Furthermore, the powering of solenoids in the acceleration channel is still object to R&D. The status of the aforementioned topics is summarized and an outline of the plans for the future is given.

 






Slides TUAM2HA03 [2.218 MB]
        
 


 



TUAM2HA04
Advance IN MEIC Cooling Studies
68


 

Y. Zhang, Y.S. Derbenev, D. Douglas, A. Hutton, A.J. Kimber, R. Li, E.W. Nissen, C. Tennant, H. Zhang
                       JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA

 


 

Funding: Supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Nuclear Physics, under Contract No. DE-AC05-06OR23177.
Cooling of ion beams is essential for achieving a high luminosity for MEIC at Jefferson Lab. In this paper, we present the design concept of the electron cooling system for MEIC. In the design, two facilities are required for supporting a multi-staged cooling scheme; one is a 2 MeV DC cooler in the ion pre-booster; the other is a high electron energy (up to 55 MeV) ERL-circulator cooler in the collider ring. The simulation studies of beam dynamics in an ERL-circulator cooler are summarized and followed by a report on technology development for this cooler. We also discuss two proposed experiments for demonstrating high energy cooling with a bunched electron beam and the ERL-circulator cooler.

 






Slides TUAM2HA04 [2.222 MB]
        
 


 




