













COOL2013 - Table of Session: THPM2HA (Operational & Future Facilities IV)


THPM2HA —  Operational & Future Facilities IV   (13-Jun-13   17:50—19:00)
Chair: L.V. Joergensen, CERN, Geneva, Switzerland


Paper
Title
Page



THPM2HA01
Present Status of NICA Project
197


 

A.V. Smirnov, N.N. Agapov, A.V. Butenko, H.G. Khodzhibagiyan, O.S. Kozlov, I.N. Meshkov, V.A. Mikhailov, A.O. Sidorin, G.V. Trubnikov, A. Tuzikov, V. Volkov
                       JINR, Dubna, Moscow Region, Russia
A.V. Eliseev
                       JINR/VBLHEP, Dubna, Moscow region, Russia

 


 

Nuclotron-based Ion Collider fAcility (NICA) is the new accelerator complex being constructed in Joint Institute for Nuclear Research. General goal of the project is to start experimental study of hot and dense strongly interacting QCD matter and search for possible manifestation of signs of the mixed phase and critical endpoint in heavy ion collisions. In this report the present status of the NICA accelerator complex are presented.

 






Slides THPM2HA01 [4.244 MB]
        
 


 



THPM2HA02
Overview of the HESR
 


 

D. Prasuhn
                       FZJ, Jülich, Germany

 


 

The High Energy Storage Ring (HESR) at the Facility for Antiproton and Ion Research (FAIR) is being designed and will be constructed by a consortium of several institutes from different countries under the leadership of R. Maier (Forschungszentrum Jülich). It was designed for storage and acceleration of anti-protons in the momentum range between 1.5 and 15 GeV/c for the PANDA experiment. As the modularized start version delayed the low energy storage ring for ion research the SPARC collaboration triggered first ideas to accelerate heavy ions in the HESR. Detailed studies about the storage, acceleration and cooling of heavy ions in the HESR in the magnetic rigidity regime of the HESR (5 to 50 Tm) proved the possibility of high quality experiments with heavy ions in the HESR. Results of the beam dynamic simulations for heavy ions as well as studies of the accumulation process of anti-protons in the HESR will be shown.

 






Slides THPM2HA02 [1.026 MB]
        
 


 



THPM2HA03
A Cooler Penning Trap to Cool Highly Charged and Short-lived Isotopes at TITAN
202


 

U. Chowdhury, J. Dilling, B. Eberhardt
                       TRIUMF, Canada's National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics, Vancouver, Canada
A.A. Gallant, T.D. Macdonald
                       UBC & TRIUMF, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
G. Gwinner
                       University of Manitoba, Manitoba, Canada
R. Klawitter
                       Heidelberg University, Physics Institute, Heidelberg, Germany

 


 

Low energy regime of nuclear physics can provide a tremendous insight into the realm of subatomic and particle physics. Precision mass measurements of short-lived isotopes is one such endeavor that can probe unitarity of the CKM matrix and CVC hypothesis, understand nucleosynthesis path, nuclear structure, help improve nuclear mass models and so on. TITAN at TRIUMF is a facility where precision mass measurement of short-lived isotopes is carried out. The unique feature of TITAN is the combination of three online ion traps that enables mass measurement of short-lived isotopes with very high precision. Presently an EBIT increases the charge state to improve the precision. However, the breeding process causes large energy spread. Accuracy of measured mass is linearly dependent on charge state while the increased emittance of beam has a negative impact on trapping efficiency and hence on precision. To overcome the drawback due to energy spread, a cooler Penning trap being developed. The trap is designed to use charged particles to reduce the beam emittance by sympathetic cooling and currently undergoing off-line tests. Working principles and updates on the status will be presented.

 






Slides THPM2HA03 [6.917 MB]
        
 


 




