













COOL2013 - Table of Session: THPM1HA (Operational & Future Facilities III)


THPM1HA —  Operational & Future Facilities III   (13-Jun-13   16:30—17:30)
Chair: A. Noda, Kyoto ICR, Uji, Kyoto, Japan


Paper
Title
Page



THPM1HA01
The Low Energy Storage Ring CRYRING@ESR
189


 

F. Herfurth, A. Bräuning-Demian, W. Enders, B. J. Franzke, O.K. Kester, M. Lestinsky, Yu.A. Litvinov, M. Steck, T. Stöhlker, G. Vorobjev
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
H. Danared
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden
M. Engström, A. Källberg, A. Simonsson, Ö. Skeppstedt
                       MSL, Stockholm, Sweden
A. Heinz
                       Chalmers University of Technology, Chalmers Tekniska Högskola, Gothenburg, Sweden
D. Reistad
                       Intégro Utbildnings AB, Sigtuna, Sweden
J. Sjöholm
                       FYSIKUM, AlbaNova, Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden

 


 

The Swedish in-kind contribution to the FAIR facility in Darmstadt, the heavy-ion storage ring CRYRING, has been transported to Darmstadt recently. Instead of warehousing until installation at the Facility for Antiproton and Ion Research, FAIR, the immediate installation behind the existing Experimental Storage Ring, ESR, has been proposed. CRYRING can decelerate, cool and store heavy, highly charged ions that come from the ESR down to a few 100 keV/nucleon. It provides a high performance electron cooler in combination with a gas jet target and thus opens up a very attractive physics program as a natural extension of the ESR, which can only operate down to about 4 MeV/nucleon. CRYRING@ESR also provides beams of low charged ions independently on the GSI accelerator. All this makes CRYRING@ESR the perfect machine for FAIR related tests of diagnostics, software and concepts, and atomic physics experiments with heavy, highly charged ions stored at low energy. Perspectives are also opened up for low-energy nuclear physics investigations. CRYRING@ESR is a first step towards atomic physics with low-energy, highly charged ions at FAIR as planned within the SPARC and APPA collaborations.

 






Slides THPM1HA01 [4.611 MB]
        
 


 



THPM1HA02
ELENA Project Status
192


 

P. Belochitskii
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The Extra Low Energy Antiproton ring (ELENA) is a small ring at CERN which will be built to increase substantially the number of usable antiprotons delivered to the experiments for studies with antihydrogen and antiprotonic nuclei. The project is now at stage of finishing the technical design. This presentation reviews the major features of ELENA: the ring, transfer lines and experimental area layout, the choice of the basic machine parameters and the main challenges. Electron cooling plays a key role in ELENA both for efficient deceleration as well as for preparing the extracted beam with parameters defined by the experiments. The choice of machine optics as a tool for achieving the required parameters and fitting the available space is discussed. The important systems like the magnets, vacuum, beam instrumentations and others are reviewed as well.

 






Slides THPM1HA02 [1.103 MB]
        
 


 




