













Cyclotrons2013 - Table of Session: MO2PB (Facility Development, Commissioning)


MO2PB —  Facility Development, Commissioning   (16-Sep-13   10:30—12:00)
Chair: L. Calabretta, INFN/LNS, Catania, Italy


Paper
Title
Page



MO2PB01
What We Learned from EMMA
14


 

S. Machida
                       STFC/RAL/ASTeC, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom

 


 

Since the demonstration of acceleration in 2011, the study of EMMA aims for more detailed and quantitative understanding of a linear non-scaling FFAG. The talk will summarise the beam study for the last couple of years which includes effects of resonance crossing, a novel idea of COD correction, etc.

 






Slides MO2PB01 [8.447 MB]
            
 


 



MO2PB02
High Current Beam Extraction from the 88-Inch Cyclotron at LBNL
19


 

D.S. Todd, J.Y. Benitez, K.Y. Franzen, M. Kireeff Covo, C.M. Lyneis, L. Phair, P. Pipersky, M.M. Strohmeier
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA

 


 

The low energy beam transport system and the inflector of the 88-Inch Cyclotron have been improved to provide more intense heavy-ion beams, especially for experiments requiring 48Ca beams. In addition to a new spiral inflector* and increased injection voltage, the injection line beam transport and beam orbit dynamics in the cyclotron have been analyzed, new diagnostics have been developed, and extensive measurements have been performed to improve the transmission efficiency. By coupling diagnostics, such as emittance scanners in the injection line and a radially-adjustable beam viewing scintillator within the cyclotron, with computer simulation we have been able to identify loss mechanisms. The diagnostics used and their findings will be presented. We will discuss the solutions we have employed to address losses, such as changing our approach to tuning VENUS and running the cyclotron's central trim coil asymmetrically.
*Ken Yoshiki Franzen, et al. "A center region upgrade of the LBNL 88-Inch Cyclotron", these proceedings

 






Slides MO2PB02 [0.824 MB]
            
 


 



MO2PB03
Progress Toward the Facility Upgrade for Accelerated Radioactive Beams at Texas A&M
22


 

D.P. May, B.T. Roeder, R.E. Tribble
                       Texas A&M University Cyclotron Institute, College Station, Texas, USA
F.P. Abegglen, G. Chubaryan, H.L. Clark, G.J. Kim, G. Tabacaru
                       Texas A&M University, Cyclotron Institute, College Station, Texas, USA
J.E. Ärje
                       JYFL, Jyväskylä, Finland

 


 

Funding: U. S. Dept. of Energy Grant DE-FG02-93ER40773
The upgrade project at the Cyclotron Institute of Texas A&M University continues to make substantial progress toward the goal of providing radioactive beams accelerated to intermediate energies by the K500 Cyclotron. The K150, which will function as a driver, is now used extensively to deliver both light and heavy ion beams for experiments. The ion-guide cave for the production and charge-breeding of low-energy radioactive beams has been constructed, and the light-ion guide (LIG) has been commissioned with an internal radioactive source. The charge breeding electron-cyclotron-resonance ion source (CB-ECRIS) has been commissioned with a source of stable 1+ ions, while the injection line leading to the K500 has been commissioned with the injection and acceleration of charge-bred beams. Despite the lack of good field maps, both light and heavy ions beams have been developed for the K150. Progress and plans, including those for the heavy-ion guide (HIG), are presented.

 






Slides MO2PB03 [9.652 MB]
            
 


 



MO2PB04
Improving the Energy Efficiency, Reliability and Performance of AGOR
25


 

M.A. Hofstee, S. Brandenburg, H. Post, R.A. Schellekens, J.E. de Jong
                       KVI, Groningen, The Netherlands

 


 

Over the past few years the nature of the experiments performed with AGOR has changed from long experiments, to sequences of short experiments, often using different beams. In addition the total demand for beamtime has gone down. This has required a change in operating procedures and scheduling. In view of the changing demands, we are continuing our efforts to improve the energy efficiency and reliability of the cyclotron, while at the same time trying to improve performance. While some of the solutions might be unique to our facility, many will have broader applicability. Some case studies will be presented and areas for future improvements identified.

 






Slides MO2PB04 [2.578 MB]
            
 


 




