













Cyclotrons2013 - Table of Session: WE3PB (Space Charge, Particle Dynamics)


WE3PB —  Space Charge, Particle Dynamics   (18-Sep-13   15:00—16:30)
Chair: T.J. Zhang, CIAE, Beijing, People's Republic of China


Paper
Title
Page



WE3PB01
Experimental Study of Resonance Crossing with a Paul Trap
409


 

H. Sugimoto
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

The effect of resonance crossing on beam stability is studied systematically by employing a novel tabletop experimental tool and a multiparticle simulation code. A large number of ions are confined in a compact linear Paul trap to reproduce the collective beam behavior. We can prove that the ion plasma in the trap is physically equivalent to a charged-particle beam propagating through a strong focusing channel. The plasma confinement force is quickly ramped such that the trap operating point traverses linear and nonlinear resonance stop bands as in cyclotrons and FFAGs.

 






Slides WE3PB01 [9.757 MB]
            
 


 



WE3PB02
Improvement of the Current Stability from the TRIUMF Cyclotron
414


 

T. Planche, R.A. Baartman, Y.-N. Rao
                       TRIUMF, Canada's National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics, Vancouver, Canada

 


 

The νr=3/2 resonance, driven by the third harmonic of the magnetic gradient errors, causes modulation of the radial beam density in the TRIUMF cyclotron. Since extraction is by H- stripping, this modulation induces unwanted fluctuations of the current split between the two high-energy beam lines. To compensate field imperfections, the cyclotron has sets of harmonic correction coils at different radii, each set constituted of 6 pairs of coils placed in a 6-fold symmetrical manner. The 6-fold symmetry of this layout cannot create a third harmonic of arbitrary phase, and so a single set of harmonic coils cannot provide a full correction of third harmonic errors driving the νr=3/2 resonance. However, the outermost two sets of harmonic correction coils are azimuthally displaced. We took advantage of it to achieve a full correction of the resonance. This greatly improved the beam current stability in the high-energy beam lines. To further improve the current stability in the high-energy beam lines, we implemented an active feedback system. This feedback system acts on the amplitude of the first harmonic Bz correction produced by outermost set of harmonic coils.

 






Slides WE3PB02 [1.007 MB]
            
 


 



WE3PB03
Space Charge Compensation Measurements in the  Injector Beam Lines of the NSCL Coupled Cyclotron Facility
417


 

D. Winklehner, D.G. Cole, D. Leitner, G. Machicoane, L. Tobos
                       NSCL, East Lansing, Michigan, USA

 


 

Space charge compensation is a well-known phenomenon for high current injector beam lines. For beam lines using mostly magnetic focusing elements and for pressures above 10-6 mbar, compensation (neutralization) up to 98% has been observed. However, due to the low pressures required for the efficient transport of high charge state ions, ion beams in ECR injector lines are typically only partly neutralized and space charge effects are present. With the dramatic performance increase of the next generation Electron Cyclotron Resonance Ion Sources (ECRIS) it is possible to extract tens of mA of beams from ECR plasmas. Realistic beam transport simulations are important to meet the acceptance criteria of subsequent accelerator systems and have to include non-linear effects from space charge, but also space charge compensation. In this contribution we report on measurements of space charge compensation in the ECRIS low energy beam lines of the Coupled Cyclotron Facility at NSCL using a retarding field analyzer. Results are discussed and compared to simulations.

 






Slides WE3PB03 [8.833 MB]
            
 


 



WE3PB04
Transmission of Heavy Ion Beams in the AGOR Cyclotron
420


 

A. Sen, S. Brandenburg, M.A. Hofstee
                       KVI, Groningen, The Netherlands
M.J. van Goethem
                       UMCG, Groningen, The Netherlands

 


 

During the acceleration of intense low energy heavy ion beams in the AGOR cyclotron feedback between beam intensity and pressure, driven by beam loss induced desorption, is observed. This feedback limits the attainable beam intensity. Calculations and measurements of the pressure dependent transmission for various beam agree reasonably well. Calculation of the trajectories of ions after a charge change shows that the desorption is mainly due to ions with near extraction energies, hitting the outer wall at a shallow angle of incidence. For heavy ions like 206Pb27+ several charge exchanges are needed before the orbit becomes unstable. Our calculations indicate that these ions make thousands of turns before finally hitting the wall. They therefore are a large fraction of the circulating ions and may contribute to vacuum degradation through restgas ionization. Ion induced desorption for relevant ions and materials has been measured; it explains the observations in the cyclotron semi-quantitatively.
This work has been financially supported by the Foundation FOM, the Dutch funding agency NWO and the EU-FP7, Grant Agreement n° 262010 - ENSAR.

 






Slides WE3PB04 [5.272 MB]
            
 


 




