













Cyclotrons2013 - Table of Session: TU4PB (Magnets)


TU4PB —  Magnets   (17-Sep-13   17:10—18:30)
Chair: Y. Jongen, IBA, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium


Paper
Title
Page



TU4PB01
Mapping of the New IBA Superconducting Synchrocyclotron (S2C2) for Proton Therapy
272


 

J. van de Walle, W.J.G.M. Kleeven, C. L'Abbate, V. Nuttens, Y. Paradis
                       IBA, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium
M. Conjat, J. Mandrillon, P. Mandrillon
                       AIMA, Nice, France

 


 

The magnetic field in the Superconducting Synchrocyclotron (S2C2) has been measured with a newly developed mapping system during the commissioning of the machine at IBA. The major difference with other mapping systems at IBA is the usage of a search coil, which provides high linearity over a large magnetic field range and the possibility to measure in a more time economic way. The first mapping results of the S2C2 were compared with OPERA3D calculations. The average field, the tune functions and the first harmonic were the main quantities which were compared and showed good agreement with the model. For example, the average field was within 0.3% of the calculation over the entire machine. In order to assess the efficiency of the regenerative extraction mechanism, protons were tracked in the measured map up to extraction. The horizontal position of the main coil was found to be a crucial parameter for the optimization of the extraction. A dedicated linear mapping system consisting of 7 Hall probes was positioned in the extraction channel of the S2C2. The field values from this linear mapping system were used to assess the optics of the beam exiting the S2C2.

 






Slides TU4PB01 [2.357 MB]
            
 


 



TU4PB02
Structural and Magnetic Properties of Cast Iron for Cyclotrons
275


 

E. Forton, S. Zaremba
                       IBA, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium
E. Ferrara, F. Fiorillo, L. Martino, E. Olivetti, L. Rocchino
                       INRIM, Turin, Italy

 


 

At IBA, the steels used to build the magnets of the Cyclone 230 are cast on demand, using very strict criteria, casting procedure, requirements and quality control. Among the various steps performed at the foundry, a thermal annealing is made. In this work, we assess the usefulness of such thermal treatment. In this communication, samples of pure iron cast ingots (maximum concentration of C = 31 ppm, N = 94 ppm, O = 31 ppm, S = 65 ppm) have been magnetically and structurally characterized. Progressive magnetic softening was observed upon successive annealing steps. These changes of the magnetic properties were ascribed to the relief of internal stresses. Various results, obtained by means of X-ray diffraction, electron microscope and precise determination of magnetization curve and hysteresis loop, will be presented and commented.

 






Slides TU4PB02 [3.139 MB]
            
 


 



TU4PB03
Superconducting Beam Transport Channel for a Strong-Focusing Cyclotron
278


 

K.E. Melconian, S. Assadi, K.C. Damborsky, J.N. Kellams, P.M. McIntyre, N. Pogue, A. Sattarov
                       Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas, USA

 


 

Funding: The Mitchell Family Foundation and Texas ASE Fund
A superconducting strong focusing cyclotron is being developed for high current applications. Alternating-gradient focusing is provided by an array of ~ 6T/m superconducting beam transport channels which lie in the sectors along the arced beam trajectory of each orbit of the cyclotron. The ~1T sector dipoles, corrector dipoles, and Panofsky type quadrupoles utilize MgB2 superconductor operating in the range 15-20 K. The quadrupole windings make it possible to produce strong focusing of the transverse phase space throughout acceleration. The trim dipole makes it possible to maintain isochronicity and to open the orbit spacing at injection and extraction. The design, development and prototype progress will be presented.

 






Slides TU4PB03 [4.020 MB]
            
 


 



TU4PB04
Methods of Increasing Accuracy in Precision Magnetic Field Measurements of Cyclotron Magnets
283


 

N.V. Avreline, W. Gyles, R.L. Watt
                       ACSI, Richmond, B.C., Canada

 


 

A new magnetic field mapper was designed and built to provide increased accuracy of cyclotron magnetic field measurements. This mapper was designed for mapping the magnetic fields of TR-19, TR-24, and TR-30 cyclotron magnets manufactured by Advanced Cyclotron Systems Inc. A Group3 MPT-141 Hall Probe (HP) with measurement range from 2 G to 21 kG was used in the mapper’s design. The analogue monitor output was used to allow fast reading of the Hall voltage. Use of a fast ADC NI9239 module and error reduction algorithms, based on a polynomial regression method, allowed the reduction of noise to 0.2 G. The HP arm was made as a carbon fibre foam sandwich. This rigid structure kept the HP arm in a flat plane within 0.1 mm. In order to measure the high gradient field, the design of this mapper provided high resolution of HP arm angle within 0.0005° and of radial position within 25 μm. A set of National Instrument interfaces connected through a network to a desktop computer were used as a base of control and data acquisition systems. The mapper was successfully used to map TR-19 and TR-24 cyclotron magnets.

 






Slides TU4PB04 [4.572 MB]
            
 


 




