













Cyclotrons2013 - Table of Session: TU2PB (Radio Frequency)


TU2PB —  Radio Frequency   (17-Sep-13   10:50—12:20)
Chair: R.A. Baartman, TRIUMF, Canada's National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics, Vancouver, Canada


Paper
Title
Page



TU2PB01
A Study of Multipacting Effects in Large Cyclotron Cavities by Means of Fully 3-Dimensional Simulations
142


 

C. Wang, B. Ji, Y. Lei, P.Z. Li, J.S. Xing, Z.G. Yin, T.J. Zhang
                       CIAE, Beijing, People's Republic of China
A. Adelmann, A. Gsell, M. Seidel
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

The field emission model and the secondary emission model, as well as 3D boundary geometry handling capabilities, are needed to efficiently and precisely simulate multipacting phenomena. These models have been implemented in OPAL, a parallel framework for charged particle optics in accelerator structures and beam lines. The models and their implementation are carefully benchmarked against a non-stationary multipacting theory. A dedicated multipacting experiment with nanosecond time resolution for the classic parallel plate geometry has also successfully shown the validity of OPAL model. Multipacting phenomena, in the CYCIAE-100 cyclotron, under construction at China Institute of Atomic Energy, are expected to be more severe during the RF conditioning process than in separate-sector cyclotrons. This is because the magnetic fields in the valley are stronger, which may make the impact electrons easier to reach energies that lead to larger multipacting probabilities. We report on simulation results for CYCIAE-100, which gives us an insight view of the multipacting process and help to develop cures to suppress these phenomena.

 






Slides TU2PB01 [7.012 MB]
            
 


 



TU2PB02
The New Axial Buncher at INFN-LNS
147


 

A.C. Caruso, G. Gallo, A. Longhitano
                       INFN/LNS, Catania, Italy
F. Consoli
                       Associazione Euratom-ENEA sulla Fusione, Frascati (Rome), Italy
P.Z. Li
                       CIAE, Beijing, People's Republic of China
J. Sura
                       Warsaw University, Warsaw, Poland

 


 

A new axial buncher for the K-800 superconducting cyclotron is under construction at LNS. This new device will replace the present buncher installed along the vertical beam line, inside the yoke of the cyclotron at about half a metre from the medium plane. Maintenance and technical inspection are very difficult to carry out in this situation. The new buncher will still be placed along the axial beam line, just before the bottom side of the cyclotron yoke. It consists of a drift tube driven by a sinusoidal RF signal in the range of 15-50 MHz, a matching box, an amplifier, and an electronic control system. A more accurate mechanical design of the beam line portion will allow for the direct electric connection of the matching box to the ceramic feed-through and drift tube. This particular design will minimize, or totally avoid, any connection through coaxial transmission line. It will reduce the entire geometry, the total RF power and the maintenance. In brief, the new axial buncher will be a compact system including beam line portion, drift tube, ceramic feed-through, matching box, amplifier and control system interface in a single structure.

 






Slides TU2PB02 [7.623 MB]
            
 


 



TU2PB03
Heat Transfer Study and Cooling of 10 MeV Cyclotron Cavity
150


 

S. Saboonchi, H. Afarideh
                       AUT, Tehran, Iran
M.R. Asadi
                       PPRC, Tehran, Iran
J.-S. Chai, M. Ghergherehchi
                       SKKU, Suwon, Republic of Korea

 


 

The most important problem in mechanical design of RF cavity of cyclotron is generated heat by RF power loss. An optimized cooling system for cavity is necessary to prevent Dee damaging and minimizing error function of cyclotron created by displacements. Also optimization of water circuit and water flow is essential because it affects unwanted vibrations and manufacturing. In this paper an attempt has been done to design an optimized cooling system for the cavity of a 10 MeV cyclotron with frequency of 69 MHz and 50 KW RF power using ANSYS and CST software.

 


 



TU2PB04
Resonator System for the BEST 70 MeV Cyclotron
153


 

V. Sabaiduc, G. Gold, B.A. Versteeg
                       BCSI, Vancouver, Canada
J. Panama
                       Best Theratronics Ltd., Ottawa, Ontario, Canada

 


 

Best Cyclotron Systems Inc. is presently developing a 70 MeV cyclotron for radioisotope production and research purpose. The RF system comprises two separated resonators driven by independent amplifiers to allow for the phase and amplitude modulation technique to be applied for beam intensity modulation. The resonators are presently in the commissioning phase consisting of cold test measurements followed by high power commissioning in the cyclotron. Preliminary simulation results have been reported and are: 56MHz operation (fourth harmonic, half-wave resonator design), 60 to 70kV dee voltage, quality factor 8000 with the estimated dissipated power of 17kW per resonator. The electromagnetic modeling has been done with CST Microwave Studio. All simulation results showed a very conservative design with typical parameters for the energy and size of the resonators. The paper will present the measurement results on a cold test set-up configuration as well as the commissioning with high power in the cyclotron.

 






Slides TU2PB04 [4.920 MB]
            
 


 




