













Cyclotrons2013 - Table of Session: TU3PB (Diagnostics, Strippers, Extraction)


TU3PB —  Diagnostics, Strippers, Extraction   (17-Sep-13   15:00—16:40)
Chair: D.P. May, Texas A&M University Cyclotron Institute, College Station, Texas, USA


Paper
Title
Page



TU3PB01
Bunch-Shape Measurements at PSI’s High-power Cyclotrons and Proton Beam Lines
257


 

R. Dölling
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

Longitudinal-transversal 2D-density distributions of the bunched 2.2 mA CW proton beam can now be measured at the 13 last turns of the Injector 2 cyclotron, at several locations in the connecting beam line to the Ring cyclotron, at the first two turns of the Ring cyclotron (all at energies around 72 MeV), as well as behind the Ring cyclotron (at 590 MeV). In the large part, distributions can be taken from several angles of view, separated each by 45°. The measurement systems at our facility have evolved with time; this paper gives the present status, performance, limits and typical results. Due to the limited space, we refer in the large part to our previous publications [1, 2, 3] and concentrate on recent findings and measurements and ideas for next steps.

 






Slides TU3PB01 [9.393 MB]
            
 


 



TU3PB02
Development of a Scintillator Probe Based on Fiber Optics for Radial Beam Diagnostics of the Ion Beam of the 88-Inch Cyclotron
262


 

M.M. Strohmeier, J.Y. Benitez, M.K. Covo, C.M. Lyneis, B. Ninemire, L. Phair, P. Pipersky, D.S. Todd
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA
K.Y. Franzen
                       Mevion, Littleton, Massachusetts, USA

 


 

Operators at the 88-Inch Cyclotron have many tuning parameters to optimize transmission from injection through extraction. However, the only diagnostics they have had were a Faraday Cup at the exit of the machine and a so called "Dee-Probe" which gives a current-vs-radius (IvR) measurement. Motivated by low transmission of the Cyclotron and to address how tuning can affect the beam, we have developed an optical beam viewer whose radial position within the cyclotron can be adjusted remotely. This viewer allows us to image the beam cross section and its axial position with very high spatial resolution as a function of radius. In this paper, we describe the mechanical development of the device which consists of a Kbr scintillator crystal, a fiber bundle and a digital camera and we present data from its initial commissioning.

 






Slides TU3PB02 [4.936 MB]
            
 


 



TU3PB03
R&D of Helium Gas Stripper for Intense Uranium Beams
265


 

H. Imao, T. Dantsuka, M. Fujimaki, N. Fukunishi, H. Hasebe, O. Kamigaito, M. Kase, H. Kuboki, K. Kumagai, T. Maie, H. Okuno, T. Watanabe, Y. Watanabe, K. Yamada, Y. Yano
                       RIKEN Nishina Center, Wako, Japan

 


 

Intensity upgrade of uranium beams is one of the main concerns at the RIKEN Radioactive Isotope Beam Factory (RIBF). The lifetime problem of carbon-foil strippers due to the high energy loss of uranium beams around 10~MeV/u was a principal bottleneck for the intensity upgrade in the acceleration scheme at the RIBF. We have developed a re-circulating He-gas stripper as an alternative to carbon foils for the acceleration of high-power uranium beams. The new stripping system was actually operated in user runs with U35+ beams of more than 1 puA. Electron-stripped U64+ beams were stably delivered to subsequent accelerators without serious deterioration of the system for six weeks. The new He-gas stripper, which removed the primary bottleneck in the high-intensity uranium acceleration, greatly contributed the tenfold increase of the average output intensity of the uranium beams from the previous year.

 






Slides TU3PB03 [11.983 MB]
            
 


 



TU3PB04
TRIUMF Extraction Foil Developments and Contamination Reduction
269


 

Y.-N. Rao, R.A. Baartman, I.V. Bylinskii, V.A. Verzilov
                       TRIUMF, Canada's National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics, Vancouver, Canada
J.M. Schippers
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

Funding: TRIUMF receives funding via a contribution agreement through the National Research Council of Canada.
We made important developments on the extraction probes and stripping foils at TRIUMF. One of the issues we had was the 7Be contamination being observed near the 1A stripper, and relatedly, stripping foils warped or even broke during use. This was deemed due to over-heating in the foil and the frame. Another issue was related to the beam spills. Beam spills are primarily caused by the large angle scattering from the stripping foil. It was thus suggested that thinner foils be used to minimize the scattering. In view of these 2 issues, improvements were made such that (1) highly-orientated pyrolytic graphite foils, of thickness around 2 mg/cm2, are now used; (2) Tantalum frame is now used in place of the previous stainless steel. These changes, plus additional heat relief features introduced, have resulted in 4 times longer lifetime with the foil, and 5 to 10 times reduction to the tank contamination level around the extraction probe. Also, these improvements have led to significantly reduced amount of beam spill monitor trips. This paper presents these developments and outcomes, including the simulations and calculations performed.

 






Slides TU3PB04 [4.798 MB]
            
 


 




