













Cyclotrons2013 - Table of Session: MO3PB (Novel Cyclotrons)


MO3PB —  Novel Cyclotrons   (16-Sep-13   15:00—16:30)
Chair: M.K. Craddock, UBC & TRIUMF, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada


Paper
Title
Page



MO3PB01
An Inverse Cyclotron for Muon Cooling
97


 

T.L. Hart, D.J. Summers
                       UMiss, University, Mississippi, USA

 


 

The production of intense high energy muon beams for muon colliders is an active area of interest due to the muon's large mass and pointlike structure. The muon production and the subsequent preparation into a beam are challenging due to the large emittance of the initial beam and the short muon lifetime. Most muon cooling channels being developed are single-pass structures due to the difficulty of injecting large emittance beams into a circular device. Inverse cyclotrons can potentially solve the injection problem using single turn energy loss injection and also reduce the muon beam emittance by a large factor. An end-to-end simulation of an inverse cyclotron for muon cooling is presented performed with G4Beamline, a GEANT-based particle tracking simulation program. Muons are collected in a central trap and then all ejected together.

 






Slides MO3PB01 [1.747 MB]
            
 


 



MO3PB02
Design Study of a Superconducting AVF Cyclotron for Proton Therapy
102


 

H. Tsutsui, A. Hashimoto, Y. Mikami, H. Mitsubori, T. Mitsumoto, Y. Touchi, T. Ueda, K. Uno, K. Watazawa, S. Yajima, J.Y. Yoshida, K.U. Yumoto
                       SHI, Tokyo, Japan

 


 

Since a cyclotron has better beam quality than that of a synchrocyclotron, we have designed a 4 Tesla superconducting AVF cyclotron for proton therapy. Its weight is less than 60 tons, which is about one fourth of our normal conducting 230 MeV cyclotron. In order to reduce the size and the weight without deteriorating the beam stability, the hill gap around the outer pole radius is made small. Calculated extraction efficiency is higher than 60%, by arranging the extraction elements properly. The low temperature superconducting coil using NbTi wire is conduction-cooled by 4K GM cryocooler. Three dimensional electromagnetic finite element codes have been used during all phases of basic design.

 






Slides MO3PB02 [13.506 MB]
            
 


 



MO3PB03
High Gradient Superconducting Cavity Development for FFAG
105


 

S.V. Kutsaev, Z.A. Conway, P.N. Ostroumov
                       ANL, Argonne, USA
R.D. Ford, C. Johnstone
                       PAC, Batavia, Illinois, USA

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Nuclear Physics, under Contract No. DE-AC02-06CH11357
Like the cyclotron, the Fixed Field Alternating Gradient machine (FFAG) is a compact accelerator with variety of applications in industry and medicine. High intensity, fixed-field compact accelerators require enhanced orbit separation to minimize beam losses especially at extraction. In medium energy and compact FFAGs, this requires a total voltage of ~20 MV per turn with continuous wave accelerating gradients of ~10MV/m, which can only be achieved using superconducting accelerating cavities. This high voltage can be generated using 4 superconducting (SC) cavities operating at higher harmonics of the beam revolution, equal to approximately 200 MHz. The cavities and cryomodule are inserted into a 2m straight section of a racetrack-shaped FFAG. However, as with cyclotrons, the FFAG has a large horizontal acceleration aperture presenting a challenging problem for SCRF cavity design. In this work, we present SC cavity design with 50 cm x 1 cm beam apertures, their electrodynamics optimization, and multiphysics analysis. To achieve a 1 mA average beam current, each cavity is powered by two 100 kW RF couplers.

 






Slides MO3PB03 [2.819 MB]
            
 


 



MO3PB04
Comparison of Superconducting 230 MeV/u Synchro- and Isochronous Cyclotron Designs for Therapy with Cyclinacs
108


 

A. Garonna
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
U. Amaldi, A. Laisné
                       TERA, Novara, Italy
L. Calabretta, D. Campo
                       INFN/LNS, Catania, Italy

 


 

Funding: This work was funded by the TERA Foundation (Novara, Italy).
This work presents new superconducting compact cyclotron designs for injection in CABOTO, a linac developed by the TERA Foundation delivering C6+/H2+ beams up to 400 MeV/u for ion beam therapy. Two designs are compared in an industrial perspective under the same design constraints and methods: a synchrocyclotron and an isochronous cyclotron, both at the highest possible magnetic field and with an output energy of 230 MeV/u. This energy allows us to use the cyclotron as a stand-alone accelerator for proton therapy. The synchrocyclotron design features a central magnetic field of 5 T and an axisymmetric pole and a constant field index. The beam is injected axially with a spiral inflector. Resonant extraction allows beam ejection with moderate beam losses. The RF system operates in first harmonic (180° Dee), with modulation provided by a large rotating capacitor. The isochronous cyclotron design features a 3.2 T central magnetic field, four sectors and elliptical pole gaps in the hills and in the valleys. Spiraling is minimized and beam ejection is achieved with a single electrostatic deflector placed inside an empty valley. The two RF cavities operate in fourth harmonic.

 






Slides MO3PB04 [4.314 MB]
            
 


 




