













Cyclotrons2013 - Table of Session: TH1PB (High Intensity, Applications)


TH1PB —  High Intensity, Applications   (19-Sep-13   08:30—10:00)
Chair: R. Gebel, FZJ, Jülich, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



TH1PB01
Operational Experience at the Intensity Limit in Compact Cyclotrons
432


 

G. Cojocaru, J.C. Lofvendahl
                       TRIUMF, Canada's National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics, Vancouver, Canada

 


 

Compact cyclotrons are a cost-efficient choice for medical radioisotope production since negative hydrogen ions can be used at energies well below 100MeV. The stripping extraction technique allows quite large circulating currents without the need for separated turns. Space charge limits are in the range of 1 to 2 mA, but operating for long periods at these levels is a challenge for many reasons, among them being the sputtering of metal surfaces where unaccepted beam is deposited. These limits and others observed during our 22 years of 24hours/365days of quasi continuous operation of TR30 cyclotrons will be explored.

 






Slides TH1PB01 [8.602 MB]
            
 


 



TH1PB02
Tuning of the PSI 590 MeV Ring Cyclotron for Accepting and Accelerating a Rebunched 72 MeV Proton Beam
437


 

J.M. Humbel, C. Baumgarten, J. Grillenberger, W. Joho, H. Muller, H. Zhang
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

In the past year the production of a 1.42 MW proton beam at a relative loss level of 10-4 at PSI’s proton facility became routine operation. In addition, the inaugurated buncher based beam injection into the 590 MeV Ringcyclotron made a remarkable step forward. In particular, an almost dispersion free setting of the beamline region around the 500 MHz rebuncher in the 72 MeV transfer line has been established and a perfect matching of the dispersion into the Ringcyclotron has been achieved. This buncher-operation optimized facility setting could be advanced up to the ordinary stable standard 2.2 mA production proton beam. With the buncher voltage turned on, at the moment the beam extracted from the Ringcyclotron is limited to below 1 mA due to raising losses, mainly generated by space charge induced distortions of the beam bunches. For a better understanding of these effects a substantial effort in modelling of the accelerated beam is under way. In particular, the influence of the trim coil fields is being implemented into the OPAL simulation code and the insertion of an additional time structure measurement probe in the Ringcyclotron is proposed.

 






Slides TH1PB02 [9.281 MB]
            
 


 



TH1PB03
Activation Analysis with Charged Particles: Theory, Practice and Potential
440


 

M.A. Chaudhri
                       Inst. of Biomaterials, Uni. of Erlangen-Nuernberg, Erlangen, Germany

 


 

Charged particle activation analysis (CPA) is an important application of cyclotrons. It is sensitive and can also activate lighter and other elements, such as Al, Si, Ti, Cd, Tl, Pb, Bi, etc., which cannot be conveniently or at all determined by slow neutron activation (NA). But, the heating of the target in CPA has to be overcome. Besides, it is necessary that the matrices of the sample and the “Standard” are identical or at least similar,which is not always convenient. However, with Chaudhri’s method*, CPA is reduced to the simplicity of NA even when matrices of “Standard” and sample are widely different. By using CPA, the effect of French Atomic Tests Series of 1974 in the Pacific on the Australian East Coast was studied. The sensitivity for detecting any element/isotope with Z=20 to Z=90 in any matrix, activated with protons, deuterons and alphas of up to 35 MeV energy have been estimated and presented in graphical form. From these curves the sensitivity of detecting any element/isotope in the aforementioned range can be directly estimated in any given matrix. These curves would help in selecting the most suitable nuclear reaction for the measurement of a particular element.
*A.Chaudhri, N.Chaudhri. Methods of charged-particle activation analysis. Paper presented at the 20th Int. Conf. On Ion Beam Analysis, Itapema (Brazil) 10-15 April, 2011 to be published 

 


 



TH1PB04
Fabrication of Hydrophobic Surfaces from Hydrophilic BeO by Alpha-Irradiation-Induced Nuclear Transmutation
443


 

E.J. Lee, M.G. Hur, J.H. Park
                       KAERI, Daejon, Republic of Korea
Y.B. Kong, Y.D. Park, J.M. Son, S.D. Yang
                       Advanced Radiation Technology Institute, Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute, Jeongup-si, Jeollabuk-do, Republic of Korea

 


 

Hydrophobic surfaces were simply fabricated by irradiating hydrophilic BeO surfaces with an alpha particle beam from a cyclotron. In this research, BeO disks were irradiated under conditions of ~25 MeV in alpha particle energy and ~1 μA in beam current with different irradiation time. After the alpha irradiation, the changes in the morphology and chemical composition of BeO surfaces were analyzed using a field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The wetting property of alpha-irradiated BeO surfaces is analyzed by measuring water contact angles (CAs). C and F atoms were created, and consequently, hydrophobic CFx functional groups were formed by the alpha irradiation of hydrophilic BeO. The amount of CFx functional groups on the surface increases as the irradiation time increases. In addition, the surface roughening, which also affects the surface wettability, was induced by the alpha irradiation. Accordingly, the CA of alpha-irradiated BeO surfaces gradually increases as the irradiation time increases. In conclusion, hydrophilic BeO surfaces could be easily converted to hydrophobic surfaces by the alpha irradiation.

 






Slides TH1PB04 [5.545 MB]
            
 


 




