













Cyclotrons2013 - Table of Session: WE2PB (Space Charge)


WE2PB —  Space Charge   (18-Sep-13   11:00—12:30)
Chair: S. Brandenburg, KVI, Groningen, The Netherlands


Paper
Title
Page



WE2PB01
Space Charge Limit in Separated Turn Cyclotrons
305


 

R.A. Baartman
                       TRIUMF, Canada's National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics, Vancouver, Canada

 


 

A review will be given of the intensity limits of cyclotrons due to space charge, both longitudinal and transverse.

 






Slides WE2PB01 [1.513 MB]
            
 


 



WE2PB02
Vlasov Equation Approach to Space Charge Effects in Isochronous Machines
310


 

A.J. Cerfon, O. Bühler, J.V. Guadagni
                       Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences, New York University, New York, USA
J.P. Freidberg, F.I. Parra Diaz
                       MIT/PSFC, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA

 


 

Starting from the collisionless Vlasov equation, we derive two simple coupled two-dimensional fluid equations describing the radial-longitudinal beam vortex motion associated with space charge effects in isochronous cyclotrons. These equations show that the vortex motion can be intuitively understood as the nonlinear advection of the beam by the ExB velocity field, where E is the electric field due to the space charge and B is the applied magnetic field. This explains why elongated beams develop spiral halos while round beams are always stable. Solving the coupled equations numerically, we find good agreement between our model and 3-D Particle-In-Cell OPAL simulations*.
* J.J. Yang, A.Adelmann, M. Humbel, M. Seidel, and T.J. Zhang, Physical Review Special Topics Accelerators and Beams 13, 062401 (2010)

 






Slides WE2PB02 [1.166 MB]
            
 


 



WE2PB03
Transverse-Longitudinal Coupling by Space Charge in Cyclotrons
315


 

C. Baumgarten
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

Based on a linear space charge model and on the results of PIC-simulations with OPAL, we analyze the conditions under which space charge forces support bunch compactness in high intensity cyclotrons and/or FFAGs. For this purpose we compare the simulated emittance increase and halo formation for different matched and mismatched particle distributions injected into a separate sector cyclotron with different phase curves.

 






Slides WE2PB03 [3.187 MB]
            
 


 




