













Cyclotrons2013 - Table of Session: MO1PB (Introduction, Facility Development, Commissioning)


MO1PB —  Introduction, Facility Development, Commissioning   (16-Sep-13   08:15—10:00)
Chair: A. Goto, NIRS, Chiba-shi, Japan


Paper
Title
Page



MO1PB00
Welcome and Opening Remarks
 


 

I.V. Bylinskii
                       TRIUMF, Canada's National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics, Vancouver, Canada

 


 

Welcome and Opening Remarks

 


 



MO1PB01
Acceleration of Intense Heavy Ion Beams in RIBF Cascaded-Cyclotrons
1


 

N. Fukunishi, T. Dantsuka, M. Fujimaki, T. Fujinawa, H. Hasebe, Y. Higurashi, E. Ikezawa, H. Imao, T. Kageyama, O. Kamigaito, M. Kase, M. Kidera, M. Komiyama, H. Kuboki, K. Kumagai, T. Maie, M. Nagase, T. Nakagawa, M. Nakamura, J. Ohnishi, H. Okuno, K. Ozeki, N. Sakamoto, K. Suda, A. Uchiyama, T. Watanabe, Y. Watanabe, K. Yamada, H. Yamasawa
                       RIKEN Nishina Center, Wako, Japan

 


 

The RIBF cascaded-cyclotrons have obtained, as of December 2012, uranium ion beams with an intensity of as high as 15 pnA (1 kW of power). This was achieved owing to deployment of a 28 GHz ECRIS, a new injector linac, a gas stripper and a bending-power upgrade of RIKEN fixed-frequency Ring Cyclotron as well as improvement of transmission efficiencies through cyclotrons and stability, etc. 

 






Slides MO1PB01 [12.793 MB]
            
 


 



MO1PB02
New Developments and Capabilities at the Coupled Cyclotron Facility at Michigan State University
7


 

A. Stolz, G. Bollen, A. Lapierre, D. Leitner, D.J. Morrissey, S. Schwarz, C. Sumithrarachchi, W. Wittmer
                       NSCL, East Lansing, Michigan, USA

 


 

A brief overview of the Coupled Cyclotron Facility will be presented with a focus on the newly commissioned stopped beam and reaccelerated radioactive ion beam capabilities. Commissioning results and operations experience of the combined system of Coupled Cyclotron Facility, A1900 fragment separator, gas stopper, EBIT charge-breeder and ReA linac will be presented.

 






Slides MO1PB02 [42.670 MB]
            
 


 



MO1PB03
Current Status of the Superconducting Cyclotron Project at Kolkata
11


 

J. Debnath, A. Chakrabarti, M.K. Dey
                       VECC, Kolkata, India

 


 

The commissioning of Kolkata superconducting cyclotron with internal ion beam had been reported in the last cyclotron conference. At that time, there was gradual beam loss due to poor vacuum. After installing a higher capacity liquid helium plant the cryo-panels were made functional leading to a substantial increase in the beam intensity. It was hoped that higher beam intensity would help in extraction of a measurable fraction of the beam, but that did not happen. Detailed investigation of beam behavior with the help of three beam probes, installed temporarily at three sectors, revealed that the beam goes highly off-centered while passing through the resonance zone. A plastic scintillator based phase probe was mounted on the radial probe and beam phase was measured accurately. It was quite clear that large amount of field imperfection was prohibiting the beam to be extracted. So magnetic field measurement has been started again and considerable amount of harmonic and average field errors have been found. In this paper we report the important developments since 2010.

 






Slides MO1PB03 [13.028 MB]
            
 


 




