













ECRIS-2014 - Table of Session: WEOMMH (W1)


WEOMMH —  W1   (27-Aug-14   09:00—10:30)



Paper
Title
Page



WEOMMH01
The Installation of the 28GHz Superconducting ECR Ion Source At KBSI
104


 

M. Won, S. Choi, J.G. Hong, S.J. Kim, B.S. Lee, J.W. Ok, J.Y. Park, C.S. Shin, J.H. Yoon
                       Korea Basic Science Institute, Busan, Republic of Korea
J.B. Bhang
                       Kyungpook National University, Daegu, Republic of Korea

 


 

In 2009, a 28 GHz superconducting electron cyclotron resonance (ECR) ion source was developed to produce high currents, diverse heavy ion charge state for the compact heavy ion linear accelerator at KBSI (Korea Basic Science Institute). The aim of this study was to generate a high current, and fast neutrons for interacting a heavy ion with the proton target. The fabrication of the key parts, which are the superconducting magnet system with the liquid helium re-condensed cryostat, the 10 kW high-power microwave considering for optimum operation at the 28 GHz ECR Ion Source, were completed in 2013. The waveguide components were connected with a plasma chamber including a gas supply system. The plasma chamber and ion beam extraction were inserted into the warm bore of superconducting magnet. In this paper, we present the current status of the installation of an ECR ion source and report on the test results for ECR plasma ignition.

 






Slides WEOMMH01 [5.460 MB]
        
 


 



WEOMMH02
First Commissioning Results of An Evaporative Cooling Magnet ECRIS-LECR4
107


 

W. Lu, Y.C. Feng, S.Q. Guo, B.H. Ma, H.Y. Ma, L.T. Sun, X.Z. Zhang, H.W. Zhao
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China
L. Ruan, B. Xiong
                       IEE, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

LECR4 (Lanzhou ECR ion source No.4) is a room temperature ECR ion source, designed to produce high current, multiple charge state ions for SSC-linac project at IMP. The ion source has been optimized to be operated at 18 GHz. A unique feature of LECR4 is that all its solenoid coils are fully immersed in a special medium and cooled by evaporative cooling technology when excited. At design current, the coils can produce peak mirror fields on axis 2.3 Tesla at injection, 1.3 Tesla at extraction and 0.5 Tesla at minimum-B. The nominal radial magnetic field is 1.1 Tesla at plasma chamber wall, which is produced by a Halbach structure 36-segment hexapole. Recently, the project has made significant progress. In January 2014, the first plasma at 18 GHz was ignited. During the ongoing commissioning phase with a stainless steel chamber, tests with gaseous ion beams have been conducted. Some intense ion beams have been produced with microwave power less than 1.5 kW, such as 1.97 emA of O6+, 1.7 emA of Ar8+, 1.07 emA of Ar9+, 290 euA of Xe20+ and so on. In this paper, the design of LECR4 ion source will be presented, and the latest test results will also be given.

 






Slides WEOMMH02 [3.543 MB]
        
 


 



WEOMMH03
Development of the Magnetic System for New DECRIS-PM Ion Source
111


 

A.A. Efremov, V. Bekhterev, S.L. Bogomolov
                       JINR, Dubna, Moscow Region, Russia
N.N. Konev
                       ITT-Group, Moscow, Russia

 


 

Super-heavy-element factory is under development at the Flerov Laboratory for Nuclear Reactions, JINR, Dubna. The factory will include DC-280 cyclotron, which will be equipped with two 100 kV high voltage platforms. All-permanent magnet ECRIS will be installed on one of the platforms. The request for the source is a production of medium mass ions with A/q=4-7.5 such as 48Ca8+. Results of the detailed design of a magnetic structure for DECRIS-PM will be presented.

 






Slides WEOMMH03 [1.165 MB]
        
 


 



WEOMMH04
Thermal Design of Refridgerated Hexapole 18 GHz ECRIS HIISI
114


 

T. Kalvas, H. A. Koivisto, K. Ranttila, O.A. Tarvainen
                       JYFL, Jyväskylä, Finland

 


 

A project is underway for constructing a new 18 GHz ECR ion source HIISI at University of Jyväskylä. An innovative plasma chamber structure with grooves at magnetic poles is being studied. This allows large chamber radius at the poles, which is relevant for the performance of the ion source while smaller radius between the poles makes space for chamber water cooling. The hexapole will be refridgerated to sub-zero temperatures to boost the coercivity and the remanence of the permanent magnet material. The hexapole structure is insulated from high temperature solenoid coils and plasma chamber by vacuum. The thermal design of the structure has been made using a thermal diffusion code taking in account radiative, conductive and convective heat transfer processes. The heat flux from plasma has been estimated using electron trajectory simulations with sensitivity analysis on the electron energy distribution. The electron simulations are verified by comparing to experimental data from 14 GHz ECR. The electron and thermodynamic simulation efforts are presented together with an analysis of the H-field vs. coersivity in the permanent magnets.

 






Slides WEOMMH04 [5.163 MB]
        
 


 




