













ECRIS2012 - Table of Session: WEXO (Ion Production & Modelling)


WEXO —  Ion Production & Modelling   (26-Sep-12   08:30—10:30)
Chair: N.R. Lobanov, Research School of Physics and Engineering, Australian National University, Canberra, Australia


Paper
Title
Page



WEXO01
Ion Beam Formation in Expanding Plasmas and its  Application to Plasma Thrusters
 


 

C. Charles
                       SP3, Canberra, Australia

 


 

For the past few decades, Direct Current (DC), radiofrequency (RF) and microwave plasma sources have been used for materials processing, materials diagnostics and electric propulsion in space. When terminated by a series of biased grids on one side, these sources can produce accelerated ion beams (which need to be neutralized) and thrust as shown by successful space missions (e.g. DC Kaufman thruster, RF Artemis thruster and microwave Hayabusa thruster). When open to vacuum or space on one side (no grid or electrode), plasma expansion occurs. The geometric and/or magnetic expansion leads to ion acceleration with sufficient electrons to provide quasi-neutrality. Applying a divergent magnetic field may lead to the spontaneous formation of an electric double layer, a sudden drop of potential within a plasma. In the laboratory, low energy large area ion beams accelerated by current-free double layers produced by RF plasma sources have been created using a variety of gases (Ar, O2, H2, CO2, Xe, Kr, CH4, NH3, N2O) and used in the production of surfaces with a variable degree of hydrophobicity and as a source of thrust in the development of new space engines.

 






Slides WEXO01 [8.477 MB]
            
 


 



WEXO02
Recent Developments and Electron Density Simulations at the ATOMKI 14.5 GHz ECRIS
77


 

S. Biri, R. Rácz
                       ATOMKI, Debrecen, Hungary
J. Pálinkás
                       University Debrecen, Debrecen, Hungary

 


 

The 14.5 GHz ECR ion source of ATOMKI is a standard room-temperature ECRIS devoted for plasma diagnostic studies, for atomic physics research and also serves as a particle source with wide range of elements for surface treatments. From the beginning lots of technical modifications and developments have been carried out on the ion source. The changes aimed the increasing of the beams charge, intensity and the widening of the ion choice. Other modifications were done to develop special, non-standard operation modes or to produce peculiar plasmas or beams. Recently the original NdFeB hexapole was exchanged by a new one and new iron plugs were calculated, designed and installed at the injection side of the source. The resulted stronger magnetic trap has shown significant effect on the beam intensity and on the charge states distribution. The new magnetic configuration was re-calculated by the TrapCAD code developed by our group. The spatial movement and energy evolution of a high number of electrons were followed in the calculation. A post-calculation energy filtering carried out for the lost and non-lost electrons reveals numerous interesting and important information in 3D.

 






Slides WEXO02 [11.678 MB]
            
 


 



WEXO03
Numerical Modeling of Ion Production in ECRIS by using the Particle-in-Cell Method
82


 

V. Mironov, J.P.M. Beijers
                       KVI, Groningen, The Netherlands

 


 

To better understand the physical processes in ECRIS plasmas, we developed a Particle-in-Cell code that follows the ionization and diffusion dynamics. The basic features of the numerical model are given elsewhere*. An electron temperature of about 1 keV is needed to reproduce the experimentally observed performance of our 14 GHz ECR source. We assume that a pre-sheath is located outside the ECR zone, where the ion acceleration toward the walls occurs. Electric field inside the ECR zone is supposed to be zero. The ion production is modeled assuming the ion confinement by a ponderomotive barrier formed at the boundary of the ECR zone. The barrier height is defined by the RF radiation density at the electron resonance layer and is taken as an adjustable parameter; when the plasma becomes overdense, we set the barrier value to zero. With these assumptions, we are able to reproduce the main features of ECRIS performance, such as the saturation and decrease of highest charge state currents with increasing gas pressure, as well as response to an increase of injected RF power. Afterglow and frequency-tuning effects can be explained by introducing the ponderomotive barrier.
* V. Mironov and J. P. M. Beijers, "Three-dimensional simulations of ion dynamics in the plasma of an electron cyclotron resonance ion source", Phys. Rev. ST Accel. Beams 12, 073501 (2009).

 






Slides WEXO03 [7.032 MB]
            
 


 



WEXO04
Proton Beams Formation from Dense Plasma of ECR Discharge sustained by  37.5 GHz Gyrotron Radiation
85


 

V. Skalyga, I. Izotov, S. Razin, V. Sidorov, V. Zorin
                       IAP/RAS, Nizhny Novgorod, Russia
T. Kalvas, H. A. Koivisto, O.A. Tarvainen
                       JYFL, Jyväskylä, Finland

 


 

Funding: Work was performed in frame of realization of federal targeted program "Scientific and pedagogical labor force for an innovative Russia" for 2009-2013 yy.
Operation of modern high power accelerators often requires production of intense beams of hydrogen ions. Newer facilities aiming at outperforming the previous generation accelerators are usually designed for higher beam currents. Meeting the demand for hydrogen ion beams with higher intensity and low transverse emittance is, therefore, becoming increasingly difficult problem. Present work is devoted to experimental investigation of proton beams production from dense plasma (Ne>1013 cm-3) of ECR discharge sustained by 37.5 GHz, 100 kW gyrotron radiation at SMIS 37 facility at IAP RAS. Different extraction system configurations were used. It was demonstrated that ultra bright proton beam with 4.5 mA current and 0.1 π·mm·mrad normalized emittance (brightness=45 A/(π·mm·mrad)2) can be formed with 1-hole (1 mm in diameter) extraction. For production of high current beams a 13-hole extractor was used. 200 mA and 1.1 π·mm·mrad normalized emittance proton beam was obtained. A possibility of further beam parameters enhancement by developing of extraction system and its power supply is discussed. It was shown that in generated proton beams H2+ component was less than 6%.

 






Slides WEXO04 [2.512 MB]
            
 


 



WEXO05
Effect of  Source Tuning Parameters on the Plasma Potential of Heavy Ions  and its Influence on the Longitudinal Optics of the High Current Injector
90


 

G.O. Rodrigues, D. Kanjilal, P.S. Lakshmy, A. Mandal, Y. Mathur, A. Roy
                       IUAC, New Delhi, India
R. Baskaran
                       IGCAR, Channai, India

 


 

Plasma potentials for various heavy ions have been measured using the retarding field technique in the 18 GHz High Temperature Superconducting ECR ion source, PKDELIS. The influence of various source parameters viz., RF power, gas pressure, magnetic field, negative DC bias and gas mixing on the plasma potential is studied. It is observed that the plasma potentials are decreasing for increasing charge states and a mass effect is clearly observed for the ions with similar operating gas pressures. In the case of gas mixing, it is observed that the plasma potential minimises at an optimum value of the gas pressure of the mixing gas and the mean charge state maximises at this value. The energy spread arising from the plasma potential influences the longitudinal optics of the high current injector in terms of increased phase spread which deteriorates the transmission through the RFQ. Details of the measurements carried out as a function of various source parameters and its impact on the longitudinal optics are presented.

 






Slides WEXO05 [11.394 MB]
            
 


 




