













ECRIS2012 - Table of Session: FRYA (Status Reports)


FRYA —  Status Reports   (28-Sep-12   11:10—12:16)
Chair: T. Lamy, LPSC, Grenoble Cedex, France


Paper
Title
Page



FRYA01
ECRISs at GANIL Today and Tomorrow
195


 

P. Jardin, O. Bajeat, C. Barue, C. Canet, P. Delahaye, M. Dubois, M. Dupuis, J.L. Flambard, R. Frigot, C. Leboucher, P. Lehérissier, F. Lemagnen, L. Maunoury, O. Osmond, J. Piot, E.K. Traykov
                       GANIL, Caen, France
B.J.P. Gall
                       IPHC, Strasbourg Cedex 2, France
C. Peaucelle
                       IN2P3 IPNL, Villeurbanne, France
J. Rubert, T. Thuillier
                       LPSC, Grenoble Cedex, France
O. Tuske
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France

 


 

GANIL (Grand accélérateur National d'Ions Lourds) uses ECRIS for producing stable and radioactive ions since more than 20 years. 2 ECR4 type IS deliver intense multi-charged stable ion beams of gaseous and metallic elements to cyclotrons for post acceleration to energies up to 100 A·MeV. A full permanent magnet ECRIS is also used for producing multi-charged radioactive ion beams in the frame of SPIRAL 1 (Système de Production d'Ions radioactifs Accélérés en Ligne, part 1). For atomic physic experiment, a high performance ECRIS named GTS developed at CENG/ Grenoble (France) is currently used to deliver high intensity, high charge state and low energy ion beams. To extend the range of radioactive ion beams available at GANIL, two ISOL (Isotope Separator On Line) projects are underway (SPIRAL2 and SPIRAL1 upgrade). In the frame of these projects, radiation hard singly-charged ECRIS, Q/A=1/3 ECRIS, 2.45 GHz deuteron ECRIS and permanent magnet TISS (Target Ion Source System) using an ECRIS are in development in parallel. A review of the main uses, current developments and performances obtained or expected with ECRISs at GANIL will be presented.

 






Slides FRYA01 [6.926 MB]
            
 


 



FRYA02
Status of ECR Ion Sources for Carbon-ion Radiotherapy in Japan
200


 

A. Kitagawa, M. Muramatsu
                       NIRS, Chiba-shi, Japan
A.G. Drentje
                       KVI, Groningen, The Netherlands
T.F. Fujita
                       National Institute of Radiological Sciences, Chiba, Japan
M. Kanazawa
                       SAGA HIMAT, Saga, Japan
N. Sasaki, W. Takasugi
                       AEC, Chiba, Japan
E. Takeshita, S. Yamada
                       Gunma University, Heavy-Ion Medical Research Center, Maebashi-Gunma, Japan

 


 

Heavy-ion radiotherapy is successfully carried out at the Heavy Ion Medical Accelerator in Chiba (HIMAC) at the National Institute of Radiological Sciences (NIRS) since 1994. Now three facilities are in operation and two are under construction in Japan. Over 8000 cancer patients have already been treated. 140-400 MeV/u carbon beams were selected for the first clinical trials at HIMAC because carbon is one of the best candidates which gives good localized biological dose distribution for the typical conditions, a depth of 10 - 25 cm and a thickness of several cm. Based on the clinical results, all the patients have been treated by carbon beams at present. The ion source needs to realize a stable carbon beam with the same conditions for daily operation. Since operators are usually not specialists of the ion source, the source should not require complicated manual tuning. In addition, shorter maintenance time and cycle are better for a hospital. ECR ion sources are utilized for such requirements in each facility. We report the recent status of the ECR ion sources at heavy-ion radiotherapy facilities in Japan.

 






Slides FRYA02 [5.652 MB]
            
 


 



FRYA03
ECRIS Related Research and Development Work at JYFL and Some Future Prospects
203


 

H. A. Koivisto, J.E. Ärje, T. Kalvas, J.P.O. Komppula, R.J. Kronholm, J.P. Laulainen, O.A. Tarvainen, V. Toivanen
                       JYFL, Jyväskylä, Finland

 


 

Since the last ECR workshop the JYFL ion source group has focused on the plasma research, work on the ion beam formation and transport and development of metal ion beams. The plasma research can be divided into plasma breakdown processes, plasma and ion beam instabilities and afterglow processes. The afterglow and instability experiments will be presented elsewhere in these proceedings [1]. In addition, studies involving in the photoelectric induced electron emission and charge exchange reactions will be briefly discussed and the experiments concerning the resonance properties of empty and plasma loaded cavity will be presented. An improvement in ion beam transport of the JYFL K130 cyclotron facility was achieved as a result of the work performed on ion beam formation. This work will be described in more detailed elsewhere in these proceedings [2]. The MIVOC method and sputtering technique were further studied in order to produce intensive titanium ion beams. As a result, an intensive {50}Ti ion beam was successfully produced with the MIVOC method and interesting behavior regarding the sputtering was noticed.
[1] V. Skalyga et al. and O. Tarvainen et al. [2] V. Toivanen et al.

 






Slides FRYA03 [4.159 MB]
            
 


 




