













ECRIS-2014 - Table of Session: MOPPH (Poster session)


MOPPH —  Poster session   (25-Aug-14   16:00—18:00)



Paper
Title
Page



MOPPH002
Production Of Metallic Stable Ion Beams For GANIL And SPIRAL2
45


 

F. Lemagnen, C. Barue, C. Canet, J.L. Flambard, R. Frigot, P. Jardin, L. Maunoury, O. Osmond, J. Piot
                       GANIL, Caen, France
B.J.P. Gall
                       IPHC, Strasbourg Cedex 2, France
T. Lamy, P. Sole, T. Thuillier
                       LPSC, Grenoble Cedex, France
C. Peaucelle
                       IN2P3 IPNL, Villeurbanne, France

 


 

GANIL has been producing many stable beams for nearly 30 years. Constant progress have been obtained in terms of intensity, stability and reliability. The presentation highlights recent results obtained for 50Ti beam production from an organo-metallic compound using the MIVOC (Metallic Ions from Volatile Compounds) method with the ECR4 ion source. The synthesis of this compound has been studied and realized by the IPHC-Strasbourg team from isotopically enriched titanium metal. Preliminary tests using natural titanocene were performed to validate the production method in terms of beam intensity, stability and reliability. Results obtained allowed us to program a physics experiment in September 2013. A 50Ti10+ beam was maintained stable for 300 h with a mean intensity of 20 μA. Q/A=1/3 ion source of SPIRAL 2 facility, whom commissioning will be led by end of 2014, is Phoenix V2 ion source which has been developed by LPSC-Grenoble. Results obtained for nickel (58Ni19+) and calcium (40Ca16+) in collaboration with LPSC Grenoble will be presented in this report.
CNRS - Centre national de la recherche scientifique. 3, rue Michel-Ange  75794 Paris cedex 16 - France  CEA, Commissariat à L'Energie Atomique Bâtiment Le ponant D - 25 rue Leblanc  75015 PARIS 

 


 



MOPPH003
Transfer of the IFMIF Injector from CEA/Saclay to Rokkasho site in Japan
 


 

R. Gobin, D. Bogard, N. Chauvin, P. Girardot, P. Guiho, F. Harrault, D. Loiseau, F. Senée
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France
J.M. Ayala, Y. Okumura
                       IFMIF/EVEDA, Rokkasho, Japan
A. Kasughai
                       Japan Atomic Energy Agency (JAEA), International Fusion Energy Research Center (IFERC), Rokkasho, Kamikita, Aomori, Japan

 


 

The IFMIF Injector, dedicated to high intensity deuteron beams has been designed, built and tested at CEA/Saclay. After acceptance test completion, the Injector has been fully disassembled and prepared for the 2 month long ship trip between Europe and Japan. Beginning of 2014, the 35 large packages have been opened and the Injector re-installation has been performed in March, April and May. The check-out phase is expected in June followed by the production of the first hydrogen plasma and first proton beam. The deuteron beam commissioning is delayed after final tests of all the Injector elements including high power diagnostics. After a brief summary of the achieved results obtained at Saclay, this article reports the different phases from end of 2012 up to the first beam production at Rokkasho.

 


 



MOPPH004
Status Report at the Heidelberg Ion-Beam Therapy (HIT) Ion Sources and the Testbench
49


 

T.W. Winkelmann, R. Cee, Th. Haberer, B. Naas, A. Peters, J. Schreiner
                       HIT, Heidelberg, Germany
E. Ritter
                       DREEBIT GmbH, Dresden, Germany

 


 

Since October 2009 more than 2000 patients were treated at HIT. In a 24/7 operation scheme two 14.5 GHz electron cyclotron resonance ion sources are routinely used to produce protons and carbon ions. The integration of a third ion source into the production facility was done in summer 2013 to produce a helium beam. This paper will give a status report of the ion source operating experience and statistics and will summarize the enhancement activities, which were undertaken at an in-house ion source testbench.

 


 



MOPPH005
Microwave Power Scaling to optimize Electron density and Temperature in ECR Produced Deuterium Plasma
 


 

A.T.T. Mostako, T.K. Basu, J. Ghosh, R.J. Makwana, R. Manchanda, C.V.S. Rao, S.J. Vala, N. Virani
                       Institute for Plasma Research, Bhat, Gandhinagar, India

 


 

Efficiently produced deuterium plasma forms the starting point of all ECR ion sources for the production of high energy neutrons. Effective absorption of microwave power in the deuterium plasma ensures an intense ionization and hence optimum electron density and temperature. Optical emission spectroscopy is one of the diagnostic techniques used to measure parameters of produced ECR plasmas. In this paper, the effect of microwave power on electron temperature in deuterium plasma is investigated. The plasma was generated by 2.45 GHz ECR microwave source. The microwave power was varied from 100-400 Watt keeping the deuterium gas pressure in the range of ~ 5×10-4 mbar. The flow rate of gas was ~ 5×10-4sccm. Plasma was diagnosed by optical emission spectroscopic technique. Optical emission spectrum of the deuterium plasma was recorded in the wavelength region 350-900 nm. In the recorded spectrum, α, β, and γ Balmer atomic lines of deuterium were identified along with few neutral lines of chromium. The electron temperature of the deuterium plasma was measured by using Boltzmann plot. A detail analysis of recorded deuterium spectrum will be presented.
* C E Bush et al Phy Plasm.2 2366 1995** S J Zweben et al Phy Plasm. 1 1469 1994*** J. Zweiback et al Phy Rev Lett. 85, 3640 2000**** A Boileau et al J. Phy B At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 22, L145 1989 

 


 



MOPPH006
Direct Injection of Intense Heavy Ion Beams from a High Field ECR Ion Source into an RFQ
52


 

G.O. Rodrigues, D. Kanjilal
                       IUAC, New Delhi, India
R. Becker
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany
R.W. Hamm
                       R&M Technical Enterprises, Pleasanton, California, USA

 


 

Beam intensities achievable from high performance ECR sources for highly charged ions are limited by the high space charge. For high performance ECR sources, the stray magnetic field of the source can provide focusing against the space charge blow-up of the beam in addition to the Direct Plasma Injection Scheme (DPIS) adapted from laser ion sources*. A combined extraction/matching system** has been designed for direct injection into a radio frequency quadrupole (RFQ) accelerator, allowing a total beam current of 10 mA for the production of highly charged 238U40+ (1.33 mA) to be injected at an ion source voltage of 60 kV. In this design, the features of IGUN have been used to take into account the rf-focusing of an RFQ channel (without modulation), the electrostatic field between ion source extraction and the RFQ vanes, the magnetic stray field of the ECR superconducting solenoid, and the defocusing space charge of an ion beam. The RFQ has been designed to suppress neighbouring charge states and to work as a filter for the desired 238U40+. This reduces the transport problem for the beam line as well as it reduces the emittance for the selected charge state.
* R. Becker et al., PROC. EPAC-2004, TUPLT024** G.Rodrigues et al., Rev. Sci.Instrum. 85,02A740 (2014)

 


 



MOPPH007
Current Developments for Increasing the Beam Intensities of the RIKEN 18-GHz Superconductiong ECR Ion Source
57


 

T. Nagatomo, V. Tzoganis
                       RIKEN, Saitama, Japan
O. Kamigaito, M. Kase, Y. Kotaka, T. Nakagawa
                       RIKEN Nishina Center, Wako, Japan
Y. Kotaka
                       SHI Accelerator Service Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
Y. Ohshiro
                       CNS, Saitama, Japan
V. Tzoganis
                       The University of Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom

 


 

Providing intense and highly charged heavy ion beams is one of the most essential and fundamental technologies to explore a trackless frontier so-called “Island of Stability” where relatively stable super heavy elements are considered to exist. Towards this goal, the development of an ion source that can provide a highly charged heavy ion beam with high intensity and low emittance is necessary. In order to provide the desired high intensity ion beam, the beam-radius expansion induced by space charge effects cannot be ignored, and it can cause considerable degradation of the beam emittance. To suppress such effects at the output of an ion source is one of the top priorities in the direction of improving both the quality and intensity of the beam. At first, we plan to examine the space charge effects with a high-intensity beam provided by the 18-GHz Superconducting ECR Ion Source at RIKEN Nishina Center. To measure the degradation of the beam emittance as function of the beam’s intensity, an in-situ emittance monitor system based on the pepperpot technique and applicable to a wide range of beam intensities is being developed. A report on the current status will be presented.

 


 



MOPPH008
The Latest Results of LAPECR3 Ion Source at IMP
 


 

Y. Cao
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China

 


 

A high charge state all permanent Electron Cyclotron Resonance Ion Source (ECRIS) LAPECR3 (Lanzhou All Permanent magnet ECR ion source No.3) has been successfully built at the Institute of Modern Physics (IMP) since 2012. LAPECR3 was designed for the Heavy Ion Medical Machine (HIMM) project. More than 120 eμA of C5+ ion beam has been extracted from the LAPECR3 ion source using CH4 and C2H2 gas, and the emittance was less than 75 π*mm*mrad when the working gas was C2H2. The corresponding experimental results will be presented in detail in this paper.

 






Poster MOPPH008 [0.347 MB]
        
 


 



MOPPH009
Status of IMP Permanent Magnet Proton Source for CI-ADS Project
 


 

Q. Wu, H.Y. Ma, L.T. Sun, Y. Yang, X.Z. Zhang, Z.M. Zhang, H.W. Zhao
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China

 


 

To produce the requested 10 mA proton beam for the China Initiative Accelerator Driven Sub-critical reactor Linac (CI-ADS), electron cyclotron resonance (ECR) ion sources operating at 2.45 GHz have been developed. The CI-ADS proton source developed at IMP can produced stable 35 keV/10 mA continuous wave (cw) beam at the RFQ entrance. The proton beam extracted by a 3-electrode extraction system passes through a low energy beam transport system (LEBT), which is composed of identical solenoids, into the 3.2 MeV radio-frequency quadrupole (RFQ). In order to ensure superconducting cavities commissioning and protection, an electrostatic-chopper has been designed and installed in the LEBT line that can chop the cw beam into a pulsed one. The achieved fall/rise time of the chopper is less than 20 ns. In this paper, the performance of the proton source and the LEBT, such as beam reliability, emittance and beam current tuning will be presented.

 


 



MOPPH010
Development of a 14 GHz High Intensity Proton Source
 


 

W.H. Zhang, Y.C. Feng, J.W. Guo, X.X. Li, H.Y. Ma, C. Qian, L.T. Sun, Q. Wu, H.J. Zhang, X.Z. Zhang, Z.M. Zhang, H.W. Zhao
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China

 


 

A high intensity ECR proton source with 14 GHz microwave heating was successfully developed at IMP. The idea of the working mechanism and the structure of the proton source, as well as using 14 GHz microwave heating, were first proposed in the world. The experimental platform was set up and preliminary commissioning was performed. The experimental results indicate that the source can produce a total of 4 mA CW hydrogen beams with microwave power of 200 W and extraction voltage of 40 kV, in which H2+ and H3+ are included. The successful commissioning of the proton source demonstrates that the proposed mechanism and the structure are feasible.

 


 



MOPPH011
Development of Interface and Diagnostic System for ECR Ion Source At KBSI
61


 

B.S. Lee, S. Choi, J.G. Hong, S.J. Kim, J.W. Ok, J.Y. Park, C.S. Shin, M. Won, J.H. Yoon
                       Korea Basic Science Institute, Busan, Republic of Korea
J. Bahng
                       Kyungpook National University, Daegu, Republic of Korea
E.-S. Kim
                       KNU, Deagu, Republic of Korea

 


 

A 28 GHz superconducting ECR (electron cyclotron resonance) ion source was recently developed at KBSI (Korea Basic Science Institute) to produce the high current and high charge state ions. The condition of the ion beam extracted from the ion source should be analyzed by a diagnosis tool after accelerating and focusing process. For this, we developed an ion beam diagnostic system composed of a slit, a wire scanner, a view screen and a faraday cup. The interface of the diagnostic system was designed so as to achieve stable operation of the ECR ion source. The information obtained from the diagnostic system can be used as a reference in studies of the optimum beam conditions needed to adjust the extraction parameters. The details of the diagnostic system and initial test results will be reported.

 


 



MOPPH012
Beam Slits and Faraday Cup System for the Measurement of Ion Beam Profile in the 18 GHz ECRIS SMASHI
 


 

W.I. Choo, S.O. Jang, H.J. You
                       NFRI, Daejon, Republic of Korea

 


 

A beam slits-Faraday cup (slits-cup) system is newly developed to evaluate the performance and the characteristics of the 18 GHz ECR SMASHI (Superconducting Multi-Application Source of Highly-charged Ions), which has been recently commissioned at national fusion research institute in Korea. The slits-cup system consists of a 2-way beam slits and a high power Faraday cup, so that they can collimate the ion beam and also measure the profile of the ion beam. The Faraday cup features a wide range of beam current (0 to 100 mA) and high beam-power capability (300 W). Also, the Faraday cup is designed to have strong features of low signal noise and free of arcing due to electrical wires not exposed to beam line. As for the 2-way beam slits, the slit positions and gaps are independently controllable. Each position of x- and y- slit could be moved by 60 mm, and the slit gap could be adjusted up to 50 mm. Beam profile was measured by adjusting the slit positions from 0 to 50 mm by maintaining the slit gap (e.g., 5 mm). Here, we describe a detailed design of the slit-cup system, beam profile measurements, and their comparisons with the wire scanner measurement.

 


 



MOPPH013
A New Metal Ion Source Using a Waveguide Directly-Coupled and Permanent Magnet-Embedded Lisitano Antenna
 


 

S.O. Jang, W.I. Choo, H.J. You
                       NFRI, Daejon, Republic of Korea

 


 

In order to generate high intensity metal ion beams, a new high density 2.45 GHz electron cyclotron resonance (ECR) ion source was designed. The ion plasma source is generated by a new type of Lisitano antenna, which is directly launched by a waveguide, where permanent magnets are embedded to have continuous toroidal configuration. Since the direct coupling by a waveguide enables the Lisitano antenna to achieve higher power capability (no power limitation), the source is able to generate higher plasma density. Also, the continuous toroidal configuration of the permanent magnets gives additional magnetic confinement to the fast electrons by ECR heating, thereby generating more uniform and higher density plasma. In this presentation, we describe a detailed design of the plasma source, microwave electromagnetic field simulations, and properties of the newly developed direct waveguide coupled Lisitano antenna.

 


 



MOPPH014
Initial Performance of a Liquid Helium-free Superconducting ECR Ion Source SMASHI at NFRI
 


 

H.J. You, W.I. Choo, S.O. Jang
                       NFRI, Daejon, Republic of Korea

 


 

A new liquid helium-free superconducting electron cyclotron resonance ion source (ECRIS) has been successfully installed and initially evaluated at the National Fusion Research Institute (NFRI) in Korea. The source features a flexible high magnetic field (>2 T)*, two-frequency heating, plasma diagnostic ports for extraction region, remotely positional three-electrode extraction system (puller-Einzel lens), and capability to generate a wide range of ion elements from gas to metal** . The source, named SMASHI (Superconducting Multi-Application Source of Highly-charged Ions), will be dedicated for development of advanced high-performance ECRIS and future application of highly charged ions in the area of matter interaction. In this presentation, we describe first operations of SMASHI and their initial results. Beam charge state spectra and their maximum intensities are provided for helium and argon beams.
* H. J. You, et al., Rev. Sci. Instrum. 83, 02A326 (2012).  ** H. J. You, et al., Rev. Sci. Instrum. 85, 02A916 (2014). 

 


 



MOPPH015
Production and Acceleration of Titanium-50 Ion Beam at the U-400 Cyclotron
64


 

S.L. Bogomolov, A.E. Bondarchenko, I.V. Kalagin, K.I. Kuzmenkov, N. Lebedev, V.Ya. Lebedev, V.N. Loginov, R.E. Vaganov
                       JINR, Dubna, Moscow Region, Russia
Z. Asfari, H. Faure, M. Filliger, B.J.P. Gall
                       IPHC, Strasbourg Cedex 2, France

 


 

Funding: *Work supported by Russian Foundation for Basic Research under grant number 13-02-12011
The production of Ti-50 ion beam with ECR ion source using MIVOC method is described. The experiments were performed at the test bench with the natural and enriched compounds of titanium (CH3)5C5Ti(CH3)3. The compounds were synthesized in collaboration with IPHC (Strasbourg) group. In the experiments at the test bench the beam currents of Ti5+ - 80 mkA and Ti11+ - 70 mkA were achieved at different settings of the source. After successful tests two 3 weeks runs with Ti-50 beam were performed at the U-400 cyclotron for the experiments on spectroscopy of super heavy elements. The intensity of the injected beam of 50Ti5+ was about of 50-60 μA, during experiment the source have shown stable operation. The compound consumption rate was determined to be about of 2.4 mg/h, corresponding to 50Ti consumption of 0.52 mg/h.

 


 



MOPPH016
Modernization of the mVINIS Ion Source
68


 

V. Bekhterev, S.L. Bogomolov, A.A. Efremov, Yu.K. Kostyukhov, N. Lebedev
                       JINR, Dubna, Moscow Region, Russia
D. Ciric, A.S. Dobrosavljevic, N. Nešković, I.M. Trajic, V. Vujović, Lj. Vukosavljevic
                       VINCA, Belgrade, Serbia

 


 

The mVINIS ECR ion source was designed and constructed jointly by the team of specialists from FLNR JINR, Dubna and Laboratory of Physics, Vinča Institute, Belgrade. It was commissioned and put in operation in 1998. From that time it was widely used in the field of modification of materials by different kinds of multiply charged ions. Recently we decided to modernize mVINIS in order to improve its operation reliability. Our main goal was to refurbish its major components (vacuum pumps, microwave generator, control system etc.). Besides, we decided to enhance basic construction of the ECR ion source in order to improve the production of multiply charged ion beams from gaseous and solid elements. We changed the shape of the plasma chamber and consequently reconstructed the magnetic structure. Also we improved the construction of the injection chamber. All these improvements resulted in substantial increase of ion beam intensities, especially in the case of high charge state ions.

 


 



MOPPH017
LEGIS Facility for Study of Reactor Steels Radiation Resistance
71


 

T. Kulevoy, A.A. Aleev, S.L. Andrianov, B.B. Chalykh, R.P. Kuibeda, A.A. Nikitin, S.V. Rogozhkin
                       ITEP, Moscow, Russia
M. Comunian, A. Galatà
                       INFN/LNL, Legnaro (PD), Italy

 


 

Considerable efforts have been drawn to adapt heavy ion beams imitation experiments for investigation of radiation stability of materials in nuclear industry, mainly structural materials - steels. Formation of defect structure in the steel using the neutron flow from the nuclear reactors is fraught with many difficulties such as a long-term session of exposure and induced radioactivity in the irradiated samples. Whereas, heavy ions could provide a versatile tool to induce a precise damage in material under controlled condition. The LEGnaro ECR Ion Source (LEGIS) installed at the high voltage (up to 300 kV) platform enables the unique possibility for wide range program of reactor steels investigation by heavy ion beams. The sample irradiation up to hundreds of dpa (displacement-per-atom) in less than an operation day can be provided by beams of different ions ranging from hydrogen to the iron with different energy. The investigation program and details of experimental facility are presented and discussed.

 


 



MOPPH018
A Microwave Ion Source for Pulsed Proton Beam Production at ESS-Bilbao
75


 

R. Miracoli, I. Arredondo, D. Belver, I. Bustinduy, J. Corres, P. Echevarria, M. Eguiraun, N. Garmendia, P.J. González, Z. Izaola, L. Muguira, I. Rueda
                       ESS Bilbao, Zamudio, Spain

 


 

Ion Source Hydrogen Positive (ISHP) is a 2.7 GHz microwave discharge installed at ESS Bilbao in Spain. This source will be employed in future application of high proton current in the field of research projects and for industrial processes. ISHP produces over 30 mA of pulsed proton beam by operating at 2.7 GHz. The magnetic field is produced by two independently movable coil pair and the extraction system is composed of a plasma electrode at high voltage platform potential, two ground electrodes, and a negatively biased screening electrode inserted between the ground electrodes. The last three electrodes are contained in the extraction column, and can be moved as a group by stepper motors, to change the distance between the plasma electrode and first ground electrode. Measurements with different extraction system setups will be described to show the improvement of the beam intensity and beam emittance.

 


 



MOPPH019
Metallic Beam Development with an ECR Ion Source at Michigan State University (MSU)
79


 

D.E. Neben, D.G. Cole, D. Leitner, G. Machicoane, L. Tobos
                       NSCL, East Lansing, Michigan, USA

 


 

Funding: Supported by Michigan State University, National Science Foundation: NSF Award Number PHY-1102511
Electron Cyclotron Resonance (ECR) ion sources have been used at MSU to provide metal ion beams to the coupled cyclotron facility (CCF), and in the future, for The Facility for Rare Isotope Beams (FRIB). The challenges of metallic beam production with ECR are in production, efficiency, stability and contamination. Future facilities such as FRIB will add the challenge of intensity. We report development of two rare earth metals and the conversion from the oxidized state into metal. The enriched isotopes of 144 Sm, and 176 Yb are commonly available in the sesquioxide form which is unsuitable for use in our standard ovens. We report here results from the off-line chemical reduction of samarium, and ytterbium oxides into metal. We were able to demonstrate efficiencies of up to 90 % throughout the conversion process. The samples were then run on our ECR ion sources to confirm the products of the reduction. In addition we report the development of cadmium metal by passing vapor though over 3/4 m of heated stainless steel tubing and observed 4.3 euA of Cd 20+ with an average consumption of 1 mg/hr.

 


 




