













ECRIS2012 - Table of Session: WEZO (New Developments & Next Generation Sources)


WEZO —  New Developments & Next Generation Sources   (26-Sep-12   14:00—15:06)
Chair: F. Ames, TRIUMF, Canada's National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics, Vancouver, Canada


Paper
Title
Page



WEZO01
Status of the SEISM Experiment
111


 

M. Marie-Jeanne, J. Angot, P. Balint, C. Fourel, J. Giraud, J. Jacob, T. Lamy, L. Latrasse, P. Sortais, T. Thuillier
                       LPSC, Grenoble Cedex, France
C. Daversin, F. Debray, C. Trophime, S. Veys
                       GHMFL, Grenoble, France
I. Izotov, V. Skalyga, V. Zorin
                       IAP/RAS, Nizhny Novgorod, Russia

 


 

Funding: This work has been supported by the EuroMagNET II under the EU contract number 228043 and by the European Commission Framework Programme 7 Design Study: EUROnu, Project Number 212372.
LPSC and LNCMI (Laboratoire National des Champs Magnétiques Intenses) of Grenoble have developed the first and unique magnetic confinement structure in the world that allows a closed 60 GHz ECR zone, using high field magnet technologies. The magnetic structure has been validated for 28 GHz resonance and a closed 1 T iso-B surface was measured. Calculated and measured field maps were carefully compared in order to determine an operation range for 28 GHz plasma tests. A whole test bench, including high pressure water for helix cooling, intense currents (up to 15 kA) for helix powering and a beam line with mass separation is under construction at LNCMI. This contribution presents the status of the experiment, hopefully including the results of the first beam tests scheduled in September. The 350 kW - 60 GHz gyrotron has been built at IAP, the status of its operation will be shown.

 






Slides WEZO01 [11.245 MB]
            
 


 



WEZO02
Design of new 18 GHz ECR for RIKEN RIBF
114


 

K. Ozeki, Y. Higurashi, T. Nakagawa, J. Ohnishi
                       RIKEN Nishina Center, Wako, Japan

 


 

In RIKEN RIBF, we plan to install a new 18 GHz ECR ion source, which supply the intense beam of highly charged heavy ion beam into the linear accelerator RILAC. By equipping two ion sources, it is expected to be able to develop new beams while we produce the beam for the experiment of RIBF. Based on the structure of 18 GHz ECR ion source which have been developed in RIKEN, this ion source has additional features as follows: Owing to three solenoid coils, Bext can be adjusted while Bmin is fixed to an optimum value.  We adopt the variable frequency (17.2-18.4 GHz) RF power source. Therefore, further enhancement of the beam intensity is expected because the frequency band suited to a size of plasma chamber is selectable,  In order to simplify the maintenance work, we improved a structure of the chamber. In this contribution, we report the design of new ion source in detail.

 






Slides WEZO02 [10.113 MB]
            
 


 



WEZO03
Recent Results of PHOENIX V2 and New Prospects  with PHOENIX V3
117


 

T. Thuillier, J. Angot, T. Lamy, M. Marie-Jeanne
                       LPSC, Grenoble Cedex, France
C. Barue, C. Canet, M. Dupuis, P. Lehérissier, F. Lemagnen, L. Maunoury, O. Osmond
                       GANIL, Caen, France
C. Peaucelle
                       IN2P3 IPNL, Villeurbanne, France
P. Spädtke
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

Funding: This work is partially funded by the European Commission under the 7th Framework Programme Grant Agreement 283745 (CRISP)
The 18 GHz PHOENIX V2 ECRIS is running since 2010 on the heavy ions low energy beam transport line (LEBT) of SPIRAL2 installed at LPSC Grenoble. PHOENIX V2 will be the starting ion source of SPIRAL 2 at GANIL. The status and future developments of this source are presented in this paper. Recent studies with Oxygen and Argon beams at 60 kV have demonstrated reliable operation at 1.3 emA of O6+ and 200 eμA of Ar12+. Metallic ion beam production has been studied with the Large Capacity Oven developed by GANIL and 20 eμA of Ni19+ have been obtained. In order to improve further the beam intensities for Spiral2, an economical upgrade of the source named PHOENIX V3 has been recently decided by the project management. The goal is to double the plasma chamber volume from 0.6 to 1.2 liter by increasing the chamber wall radius, keeping the whole magnetic confinement intensity unchanged. The PHOENIX V3 magnetic design will be presented along with a status of the project.

 






Slides WEZO03 [8.818 MB]
            
 


 




