













ECRIS2012 - Table of Session: WEYO (Ion Beam Extraction & Optics)


WEYO —  Ion Beam Extraction & Optics   (26-Sep-12   11:00—12:30)
Chair: H. A. Koivisto, JYFL, Jyväskylä, Finland


Paper
Title
Page



WEYO01
The Einzel Lens Longitudinal Chopper
95


 

K. Takayama, T. Adachi
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
T. Adachi, K.W. Leo
                       Sokendai, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

The Einzel lens longitudinal chopper [1] placed just after the ECRIS has been developed for the KEK digital accelerator [2] and is being operated without trouble over more than 1 year. Propagation of a msec-long ion pulse extracted with the ECRIS extraction voltage V1, is fully controlled by superimposing a rectangular-shape pulse voltage V2 (<0) on the fixed Einzel lens voltage V3 (V3 > V1). For most of time region (~msec), beam propagation is blocked, meanwhile for a time region (~5 μs), where V2 is on and V2 + V3 < V1, the beam can propagate downstream under the optimized transverse matching condition. Namely, the superimposed voltage V2 + V3 works as a gate voltage. This negative pulse voltage is produced by the solid-state switch driven Marx Generator, promising a fast rising/falling feature in the pulse profile. This chopper enjoys a lot of figure of merits originated from the fact that the beam can be handled at its minimum energy region:  low electron emission,  low voltage,  low energy X-ray, and  low cost. This type chopper should be expected in a wide variety of ion beam applications. Comparison with other type choppers will be discussed.
[1] T. Adachi, K.W. Leo et al., "A Solid-state Marx Generator driven Einzel Lens Chopper", Rev. Sci. Inst. 82, 083305 (2011). [2] T.Iwashita et al., "KEK Digital Accelerator", Phys. Rev. ST-AB 14, 071301 (2011).

 






Slides WEYO01 [5.566 MB]
            
 


 



WEYO02
Experimental Results: Charge-state and Current-density Distribution at the Plasma Electrode of an ECR Ion Source
101


 

L. Panitzsch, T. Peleikis, M. Stalder, R.F. Wimmer-Schweingruber
                       IEAP, Kiel, Germany

 


 

We have measured the current-density in very close vicinity (15 mm downstream) of the plasma electrode of our hexapole-geometry electron-cyclotron-resonance ion source (ECRIS). For this, we equipped our 3D-movable puller electrode with a customized Faraday Cup (FC) inside. To achieve high spatial resolution we reduced the aperture of the puller electrode to only 0.5 mm. Thus, the source-region of the extracted ion beam is limited to a very small area of the plasma electrode's hole (d = 4 mm). The information about the charge-state distribution and the current density in the plane of the plasma electrode is conserved in the ion beam and was scanned by remotely moving the small-aperture puller electrode (incl. FC) across the aperture of the plasma electrode. From additional m/q- measurements for the different positions we can deduce that different ion charge-states are grouped into bloated triangles of different sizes but with the same orientation in the plane of the plasma electrode with the current density peaking at the centre. This confirms simulations by various groups as well as some emittance measurements, but adds spatial resolution for the different charge-states.

 






Slides WEYO02 [2.298 MB]
            
 


 



WEYO03
Ion Beam Extraction from Magnetized Plasma
106


 

P. Spädtke, R. Lang, J. Mäder, F. Maimone, J. Roßbach, K. Tinschert
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

With increasing the total extracted current for any ion source, the optimisation of the extraction system becomes more important, because of the space charge effect. Several attempts have been made in the past to simulate the extraction from an Electron Cyclotron Resonance Ion Source (ECRIS) in a correct way. Most of these attempts failed, because they were not able to reproduce the experimental results. The best model up to now is given by the following procedure: tracing the magnetic field lines through the extraction aperture, looking where these field lines are coming from; using these coordinates of the magnetic field line as starting points for ions to be extracted; the initial current of each trajectory is determined by theoretical assumptions about the plasma or by a plasma simulation; Child's law is applicable locally only in direction of the magnetic field, if no emission limited flow is present.

 






Slides WEYO03 [16.955 MB]
            
 


 




