













ECRIS2012 - Table of Session: THYO (Charge Breeding & Radioactive Ion Beams)


THYO —  Charge Breeding & Radioactive Ion Beams   (27-Sep-12   11:00—12:30)
Chair: T. Nakagawa, RIKEN Nishina Center, Wako, Japan


Paper
Title
Page



THYO01
Operation of an ECRIS Charge State Breeder at TRIUMF
163


 

F. Ames, R.A. Baartman, P.G. Bricault, K. Jayamanna, A. Mjøs
                       TRIUMF, Canada's National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics, Vancouver, Canada

 


 

After initial commissioning of the charge state breeder for radioactive ions at the TRIUMF/ISAC facility further tests on the performance of the system have been performed. One of the major problems found was the high background of stable ions from the ECR source, mainly C, N, O, Ar, Fe, Ni, C and Cr. The main source of those is the residual gas and sputtered material from the plasma chamber wall and from the surrounding electrodes. Although their intensity is small it can be orders of magnitude more than the intensity from the radioactive ions. Therefore, the original stainless steel plasma chamber of the Pantechnik PHOENIX ECR source has been exchanged to aluminium with an ultra pure aluminium coating, all electrodes for injection and extraction of the ions have been replaced with aluminium and the iron joke at the extraction side, which is part of the vacuum system in the PHOENIX source has been coated as well. This combined effect has reduced the amount of background ions substantially. Detailed results on the performance of the source after those changes will be presented.

 






Slides THYO01 [1.634 MB]
            
 


 



THYO02
LPSC PHOENIX ECR Charge Breeder Beam Optics and Efficiencies
167


 

J. Angot, T. Lamy, M. Marie-Jeanne, P. Sortais, T. Thuillier
                       LPSC, Grenoble Cedex, France

 


 

The PHOENIX ECR charge breeder characteristics (efficiency and charge breeding time) were measured at CERN-ISOLDE and LPSC, they were considered as sufficient to allow its setup on various facilities (TRIUMF-Canada/GANIL-SPIRAL2-France/SPIRAL1). The developments performed at the Argonne National Laboratory (USA) have shown that the ECR charge breeder efficiencies could be much higher than the ones obtained with PHOENIX, without major differences between the two devices. We have tried to study the possible reasons of such different results in order to improve the PHOENIX charge breeder characteristics. The transmission value of the n+ beam line has been measured to be as low as 30%. Emittances of the total beam extracted from the source and of some analyzed beams (after the magnetic spectrometer) have been measured and will be presented. Simulations have shown a too low vertical acceptance at the center of the dipole. Simulations and experimental results will be presented to show how an additional Einzel lens inserted just before the dipole have drastically improve the beam transmission. The impact of this new beam transport on efficiency results will be presented.

 






Slides THYO02 [4.337 MB]
            
 


 



THYO03
Design Status of ECR Ion Sources and LEBT for FRIB
172


 

G. Machicoane, N.K. Bultman, G. Morgan, E. Pozdeyev, X. Rao
                       FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA
J.Y. Benitez, C.M. Lyneis
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA
L.T. Sun
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science under Cooperative Agreement DE-SC0000661
The Facility for Rare Isotope Beams at Michigan State University is currently being designed and will provide intense beams of rare isotopes for research in nuclear physics, nuclear astrophysics and study of fundamental interactions. The FRIB driver linac will accelerate all stable isotopes from Oxygen to Uranium to energies beyond 200 MeV/u at beam powers up to 400 kW. In the case of Uranium about 13.3 pμA of U33+ are required from the ion source to reach the maximum beam power on the target. Such current is at the limit of what an ECR ion source can produce and led us to design the FRIB driver linac to accelerate concurrently two charges. The ECR ion source for FRIB will be based on the VENUS ion source developed at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL). Recent beam measurements done with VENUS have demonstrated that the ion source can actually produce close to 13pμA of U33+ and therefore could possibly meet the current required for FRIB in one charge state. This paper reviews the status of the FRIB ECR ion source and the modifications that have been made to the VENUS ion source design. The Low energy beam line transport (LEBT) will also be presented and discussed.

 






Slides THYO03 [6.532 MB]
            
 


 



THYO04
Performance of the ANL ECR Charge Breeder with Low Mass Beams
177


 

R.C. Vondrasek, S.V. Kutsaev, R.C. Pardo, R.H. Scott
                       ANL, Argonne, USA
P. Delahaye, L. Maunoury
                       GANIL, Caen, France

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Nuclear Physics, under Contract No. DE-AC02-06CH11357.
The Californium Rare Ion Breeder Upgrade (CARIBU) of the ATLAS superconducting linac facility aims at providing low-energy and reaccelerated neutron-rich radioactive beams to address key nuclear physics and astrophysics questions. These beams are obtained from fission fragments of a Cf-252 source, thermalized and collected into a low-energy particle beam by a helium gas catcher, mass analyzed by an isobar separator, and charge bred with an ECR ion source for acceleration in ATLAS. The charge breeding program had focused on optimizing beams in the mid-mass range, achieving high charge breeding efficiencies of both gaseous and solid species including 14.7% for the radioactive species 143Ba27+. In an effort to better understand the charge breeding mechanism, we recently focused on the low-mass species sodium and potassium which up to present have been difficult to charge breed efficiently. Charge breeding efficiencies of 10.1% for 23Na7+ and 17.9% for 39K10+ were obtained injecting stable Na+ and K+ beams from a surface ionization source. Details of these studies will be presented as well as simulations detailing the injection of the low charge state beams into the charge breeder.

 






Slides THYO04 [9.178 MB]
            
 


 




