













ECRIS-2014 - Table of Session: THOMMH (Th1)


THOMMH —  Th1   (28-Aug-14   09:00—10:30)



Paper
Title
Page



THOMMH01
Boron Ion Beam Production with the Supernanogan ECR Ion Source for the CERN BIO-LEIR Facility
132


 

J.T. Stafford-Haworth, D. Küchler, V. Toivanen
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
J. Röhrich
                       HZB, Berlin, Germany

 


 

To deliver B3+ ions for medical research the compounds decaborane and m-carborane were tested using the metal ions from volatile compounds (MIVOC) method with the Supernanogan 14.5 GHz ECR ion source. Using decaborane the source delivered less than 10 uA intensity of B3+ and after operation large deposits of material were found inside the source. Using m-carborane 50 uA of B3+ were delivered without support gas. For both compounds Helium and Oxygen support gasses were also tested, and the effects of different source tuning parameters are discussed. The average consumption of m-Carborane was 0.1 mg/uAh over all operation.

 






Slides THOMMH01 [2.223 MB]
        
 


 



THOMMH02
Application of an ECR Ion Source for Ionic Functionalization of Implant Materials on the Nanoscale
135


 

R. Rácz, S. Biri, A. Csik, P. Hajdu, K. Vad
                       ATOMKI, Debrecen, Hungary
J. Bakó, I. Csarnovics, Cs. Hegedűs, V. Hegedűs, S. Kokenyesi, J. Pálinkás, T. Radics
                       University Debrecen, Debrecen, Hungary

 


 

Surface modification by variously charged heavy ions plays an increasingly important role since functionalization of surfaces and/or deeper layers at micro- and nanoscopic scale can be biologically useful for materials of medical implants. The functionalized surfaces have a huge potential in the field of nanotechnology, sensor devices as well. Our group explores the physical and biological effect of such treatments. In the recent phase of the research work the implantation of titanium and zirconium-dioxide samples by calcium, gold and silicon ions is required. The 14.5 GHz Electron Cyclotron Resonance Ion Source (ECRIS) of Atomki - a classical room-temperature ion source - was used in this study as an ion implanter to deliver low energy particles from wide range of elements. A new vacuum chamber and a sample holder for effective irradiation and the production of the beam itself were developed. The technical details of the irradiation and the first result of the physical investigations are described in this paper.

 






Slides THOMMH02 [1.769 MB]
        
 


 



THOMMH03
A Point-like Source of Extreme Ultraviolet Radiation Based on Non-equilibrium Discharge, Sustained by Powerful Radiation of Terahertz Gyrotron
140


 

V. Sidorov, M.Yu. Glyavin, S. Golubev, I. Izotov, A.G. Litvak, G. Luchinin, D. Mansfeld, S. Razin, V. Skalyga, A. Vodopyanov
                       IAP/RAS, Nizhny Novgorod, Russia

 


 

Funding: The work was supported by RSF within grant No 14-12-00609.
It is proposed in this paper to use discharge plasma supported by terahertz radiation as a source of EUV light for high-resolution lithography. In this report we discuss the experimental investigation of two types of EUV sources based on discharge, supported by powerful gyrotron radiation. Following investigation results are described: -a series of experiments that demonstrate the generation of EUV light from the vacuum-arc discharge plasma in tin vapor in the magnetic trap heated by gyrotron radiation with a frequency of 75 GHz under electron cyclotron resonance (ECR) conditions; -a numerical modeling of the plasma emissivity in the EUV range, depending on the parameters of the heating radiation is performed; -experimental studies of EUV emission from plasma discharge sustained by strong terahertz powerful radiation in inhomogeneous gas flows are started.

 






Slides THOMMH03 [1.249 MB]
        
 


 




