













ECRIS2012 - Table of Session: FRXA (New Developments & Status Reports)


FRXA —  New Developments & Status Reports   (28-Sep-12   09:40—10:50)
Chair: G. Ciavola, INFN/LNS, Catania, Italy


Paper
Title
Page



FRXA01
High Intensity Beam Production at CEA/Saclay for the IFMIF Project
182


 

R. Gobin, G. Adroit, D. Bogard, N. Chauvin, O. Delferrière, Y. Gauthier, P. Girardot, F. Harrault, J.L. Jannin, D. Loiseau, P. Mattei, A. Roger, F. Senée, O. Tuske
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France

 


 

At CEA/Saclay, IRFU institute is in charge of the design, construction and characterization of the 140 mA continuous deuteron Injector for the IFMIF project. This injector includes the source and the low energy beam line (LEBT) with its own diagnostics. The Electron Cyclotron Resonance (ECR) ion source operates at 2.45 GHz and the 2 m long LEBT is based on 2 solenoids. Krypton gas injection in the beam line is foreseen in order to reach a high level of space charge compensation for the beam matching at the RFQ entrance. During the last months hydrogen beam has been produced in pulsed and continuous mode and the beam diagnostics have been installed and commissioned. Recently a 125 mA-100 keV pulsed deuteron beam has been produced with a 1% duty cycle. In this article, the high intensity proton and deuteron beam characterization will be presented.

 






Slides FRXA01 [9.797 MB]
            
 


 



FRXA02
All Permanent Magnet ECR Ion Source Development and Operation Status at IMP
185


 

L.T. Sun, Y. Cao, J.Q. Li, J.Y. Li, B.H. Ma, H. Wang, J.W. Xia, D. Xie, W.H. Zhang, X.Z. Zhang, H.W. Zhao
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China

 


 

All permanent magnet ECR ion sources have many advantages over traditional ECR ion sources composed of several axial room temperature solenoids and one permanent magnet hexapole magnet, which make them the first choice for many heavy ion facilities and platforms. At IMP, three types of all permanent magnet ECR ion sources have been built for different applications, i.e. the very compact ECR ion source LAPECR1 for intense mono or multi charge state ion beam production, the LAPECR2 ion source installed on the 320 kV high voltage multidisciplinary platform, and the LAPECR3 ion source dedicated to C5+ beam production for the cancer therapy facility. In this paper, after a general discussion of the ion sources' design, the applications and the operation status of the IMP all permanent magnet ECR ion sources will be presented.

 






Slides FRXA02 [6.380 MB]
            
 


 



FRXA03
Laser Ablation of Actinides into an Electron Cyclotron Resonance Ion Sources for Accelerator Mass Spectroscopy
190


 

T. Palchan, F.G. Kondev, S.A. Kondrashev, C. Nair, R.C. Pardo, R.H. Scott, R.C. Vondrasek
                       ANL, Argonne, USA
W. Bauder, P. Collon
                       University of Notre Dame, Indiana, USA
J.F. Berg, T. Maddock, G. Palmotti, M. Salvatores, G. Youinou
                       INL, Idaho Falls, Idaho, USA
G. Imel
                       ISU, Pocatello, Idaho, USA
M. Paul
                       The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, The Racah Institute of Physics, Jerusalem, Israel
M. Salvatores
                       CEA Cadarache, Saint Paul Lez Durance, France

 


 

Funding: This work is supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Nuclear Physics, under contract No. DE-AC02-06CH11357.
A project using accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS) is underway at the ATLAS facility to measure the atom densities of transmutation products present in samples irradiated in the Advanced Test Reactor at INL. These atom densities will be used to infer effective actinide neutron capture cross-sections ranging from Thorium to Califorium isotopes in different neutron spectra relevant to advanced fuel cycles. This project will require the measurement of many samples with high precision and accuracy. The AMS technique at ATLAS is based on production of highly-charged positive ions in an ECRIS followed by injection into a linear accelerator. We use a picosecond laser to ablate the actinide material into the ion source. We expect that the laser ablation technique will have higher efficiency and lower chamber contamination than sputtering or oven evaporation thus reducing 'cross talk' between samples. The results of off-line ablation tests and first results of an accelerate beam generated by the laser coupled to the ECR will be discussed as well as the overall project schedule.

 






Slides FRXA03 [11.825 MB]
            
 


 




