













eeFACT2016 - Table of Session: TUT1BH (Beam-beam Issues)


TUT1BH —  Beam-beam Issues   (25-Oct-16   10:10—10:50)
Chair: R.W. Assmann, DESY, Hamburg, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



TUT1BH1
Flip-flop Instability in FCC-ee at Low Energies
 


 

D.N. Shatilov
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

Funding: This work has been supported by Russian Science Foundation (project N14-50-00080).
At the energies of FCC-ee beam-beam effects get an extra dimension due to beamstrahlung - radiation in the field of the oncoming bunch. At high energies (175, 120 GeV) it limits the beam lifetime due to possible ingress of particles beyond the energy acceptance. At low energies (80, 45.5 GeV) beamstrahlung may lead to significant growth of the energy spread (and therefore the bunch length). We employed quasi-strong-strong tracking code Lifetrac to study the beam-beam effects in FCC-ee at 45.5 GeV. It was found that the collider performance here is limited by a peculiar flip-flop instability, which is triggered by the bunch lengthening due to beamstrahlung. We discuss how it depends on different parameters: RF voltage, horizontal emittance and beta-function, betatron coupling, asymmetry in the bunch currents. In order to achieve higher luminosity, it is proposed to decrease beta-x at the IP and to increase emittance-x.

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



TUT1BH2
Study of Coherent Head-tail Instablility Due to Beam-beam Interaction in Cirular Colliders Based on Crab Waist Scheme
61


 

K. Ohmi
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

FCC-ee is being studied various collision schemes, head-on and large Piwinski angle/ crab waist schemes. We discuss beam-beam limit in the collision schemes using weak-strong and strong-strong models.

 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ https://doi.org/10.18429/JACoW-eeFACT2016-TUT1BH2

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




