













eeFACT2016 - Table of Session: WET3BH (Energy Efficiency)


WET3BH —  Energy Efficiency   (26-Oct-16   16:15—17:15)
Chair: W. Chou, Fermilab, Batavia, Illinois, USA


Paper
Title
Page



WET3BH1
Improvement of Efficiency of Klystron to Apply the CPD Method
192


 

K. Watanabe
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

A high power RF system for the particle accelerators needs large electrical power in the operation. An improvement of efficiency is also always required as a technology component for the energy saving. To improve efficiency of a high-power source, the CPD (Collector Potential Depression) method already was applied a Gyrotron to recovery the electrical energy form the collector loss. The CPD is an energy-saving scheme that recovers the kinetic energy of the spent electrons after generating rf power. A CPD klystron (E37703 CPD) was fabricated at 2013, to recycle an existing klystron of Toshiba E3786. The purpose of our study is to demonstrate the proof-of-principle of the CPD method to apply a klystron. A plane of R&D of CPD klystron at KEK will be reported in this meeting.

 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ https://doi.org/10.18429/JACoW-eeFACT2016-WET3BH1

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



WET3BH3
Study on the International Linear Collider Beam Dump by plasma-wakefield Deceleration
 


 

T. Saeki, J. Fujimoto, H. Hayano, K. Yokoya
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
A. Chaopresenter
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA
D.M. Farinella, T. Tajima, X. Zhang
                       UCI, Irvine, California, USA
D. Perret-Gallix
                       IN2P3, Paris, France
M. Zeng
                       IFIN-HH, Bucharest - Magurele, Romania

 


 

Funding: This work is supported by Grant-in-Aid for Challenging Exploratory Research, JSPS KAKENHI Grant Number 15K13494.
As the scale of accelerator projects and their power consumptions increase, improving the power efficiency and the power recovery of accelerator systems become immediate and important requirement and goal. Moreover, the radiation level in the accelerators should be kept to a minimum extent to cope with environmental consideration. In the design of the next future largest accelerator, the International Linear Collider (ILC), important efforts are being undertaken to reduce the electricity consumption and to lower the radiation level. Consequently, we proposed a new system of beam dump which is based on the wakefield deceleration of beams in plasma, where the radiation level is far less than in the conventional designs and where the beam power might be recovered. We started the study in early 2015 and first focused on simulation where the ILC electron beams at 250 GeV is dumped into a gas chamber so as to create a plasma and therefore to achieve efficient deceleration. We will also consider energy recovery from the created plasma in the gas chamber. The article presents the current status of these studies.

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




