














eeFACT2022 - Table of Session: THYAS02 (WG13: Monochromatization)


THYAS02 —  WG13: Monochromatization   (15-Sep-22   12:15—13:15)



Paper
Title
Page



THYAS0202
Optics Design for a Monochromatization Scheme for the Direct S-Channel Higgs Production at FCC-ee Collider
 


 

H.P. Jiang
                       HIT, Harbin, People’s Republic of China
A. Faus-Golfe
                       IFIC, Valencia, Spain
A. Faus-Golfe, Z.D. Zhang
                       Université Paris-Saclay, CNRS/IN2P3, IJCLab, Orsay, France
K. Oide, F. Zimmermann, F. Zimmermann, F. Zimmermann
                       CERN, Meyrin, Switzerland
K. Oide
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
Z.D. Zhang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People’s Republic of China
Z.D. Zhang
                       UCAS, Beijing, People’s Republic of China
F. Zimmermann
                       APS, Silver Spring, USA

 


 

The FCC-ee collider baseline foresees four different energy operation modes: Z, WW, H(ZH) and ttbar. An optional fifth mode, called s-channel Higgs production mode, could allow the measurement of the electron Yukawa coupling, in dedicated runs at 125 GeV centre-of-mass energy, provided that the centre-of-mass energy spread, can be reduced by at least an order of magnitude (5-10 MeV). The use of a special collision technique known as monochromatization scheme (mono-scheme) is one way to accomplish it. The transverse monochromatization scheme consists of introducing a dispersion function different from zero but of opposite sign for the two colliding beams at the Interaction Point (IP); In this paper, we will report about the trade-off between energy spread and luminosity, and the first attempt to design a new optics to implement a transverse monochromatic scheme for the FCC-ee Higgs production.

 






Slides THYAS0202 [2.133 MB]
        
 


Cite •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




