













ERL2017 - Table of Session: TUIACC (WG5.2 FEL Applications A)


TUIACC —  WG5.2 FEL Applications A   (20-Jun-17   08:30—09:45)
Chair: P.A. McIntosh, STFC/DL/ASTeC, Daresbury, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom


Paper
Title
Page



TUIACC001
LERF - New Life for the Jefferson Lab FEL
45


 

C. Tennant, S.V. Benson, J.R. Boyce, J.L. Coleman, D. Douglas, S.L. Frierson, J. Gubeli, C. Hernandez-Garcia, K. Jordan, C. Keith, R.A. Legg, M.D. McCaughan, T. Satogata, M. F. Spata, M.G. Tiefenback, S. Zhang
                       JLab, Newport News, Virginia, USA
R. Alarcon, D. Blyth, R.A. Dipert, L. Ice, G. Randall, B.N. Thorpe
                       Arizona State University, Tempe, USA
J. Balewski, J.C. Bernauer, J.C. Bessuille, R. Corliss, R.F. Cowan, C. Epstein, P.F. Fisher, I. Friščić, D.K. Hasell, E. Ihloff, J. Kelsey, S. Lee, R. Milner, P. Moran, D. Palumbo, S. Steadman, C. Tschalär, C. Vidal, Y. Wang
                       MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA
T. Cao, B. Dongwi, P. Guèye, N. Kalantarians, M. Kohl, A. Liyanage, J. Nazeer
                       Hampton University, Hampton, Virginia, USA
R. Cervantes, A. Deshpande, N. Feege
                       Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, USA
K. Dehmelt
                       SUNY SB, Stony Brook, New York, USA
P.E. Evtushenko
                       HZDR, Dresden, Germany
M. Garçon
                       CEA/DRF/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
B. Surrow
                       Temple University, Philadelphia, USA

 


 

Funding: Authored by Jefferson Science Associates, LLC under U.S. DOE Contract No. DE-AC05-06OR23177.
In 2012 Jefferson Laboratory's energy recovery linac (ERL) driven Free Electron Laser successful completed a transmission test in which high current CW beam (4.3 mA at 100 MeV) was transported through a 2 mm aperture for 7 hours with beam losses as low as 3 ppm. The purpose of the run was to mimic an internal gas target for DarkLight* - an experiment designed to search for a dark matter particle. The ERL was not run again until late 2015 for a brief re-commissioning in preparation for the next phase of DarkLight. In the intervening years, the FEL was rebranded as the Low Energy Recirculator Facility (LERF), while organizationally the FEL division was absorbed into the Accelerator division. In 2016 several weeks of operation were allocated to configure the machine for Darklight with the purpose of exercising - for the first time - an internal gas target in an ERL. Despite a number of challenges, including the inability to energy recover, beam was delivered to a target of thickness 1018 cm-2 which represents a 3 order of magnitude increase in thickness from previous internal target experiments. Details of the machine configuration and operational experience will be discussed.
* J. Balewski et al., A Proposal for the DarkLight Experiment at the Jefferson Laboratory Free Electron Laser, May 2012.

 






Slides TUIACC001 [23.844 MB]
        
 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ https://doi.org/10.18429/JACoW-ERL2017-TUIACC001

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



TUIACC002
Novosibirsk ERL Based FEL as User Facility
 


 

V.V. Kubarev
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

The Novosibirsk free electron laser (NovoFEL) is the first multi-turn energy-recovery linear accelerator with three separate laser systems (the terahertz, far-infrared and mid-infrared ones). Radiation of the FELs is transported now from accelerating hall to thirteen user and diagnostics stations by one optical channel filled dry air-nitrogen mixture. In this paper, we describe main radiation parameters of the NovoFEL, workstations of the facility and survey selected recent experiments using substantially intense monochromatic terahertz laser radiation, which can be tuned from 90 µm to 240 µm.

 






Slides TUIACC002 [6.654 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



TUIACC003
Asymmetric, Dual Axis Cavity for Energy Recovery LINAC: Recent Developments and Possible Applications
 


 

I.V. Konoplev, A.J. Lancaster, K. Metodiev, A. Seryi
                       JAI, Oxford, United Kingdom
R. Ainsworth
                       Fermilab, Batavia, Illinois, USA
G. Burt
                       Cockcroft Institute, Lancaster University, Lancaster, United Kingdom

 


 

High luminosity THz and X-ray radiation are vital for many branches of science and industry (for example biochemistry and material science) and to achieve it a high electron bunch current is needed. Another requirement to such radiators is high wall plug efficiency. The efficiency is usually very low and the electron beam energy recovery is the most attractive way to improve it. This is normally done using SCRF ERL systems but the bunch current limitations for these systems are more dramatic when compared with a conventional LINACs. Increase of the bunch current in conventional ERLs above some threshold value (normally around 100 mA) leads to beam instabilities development and beam transportation termination. This naturally limits the instruments' luminosity. Here we suggest and discuss the novel concept and specific designs which can enable a SCRF ERL system capable of generating picosecond electron bunches with up to 1A current. The aim of the project is to demonstrate the operation of dual axis asymmetric ERL and its application in research and industry. A preliminary market research of such devices has been recently conducted and results will be also presented.

 






Slides TUIACC003 [10.827 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




