













FEL2012 - Table of Session: FROBI (FEL Prize Lecture -2-)


FROBI —  FEL Prize Lecture -2-   (31-Aug-12   10:45—11:15)



Paper
Title
Page



FROBI01
Towards Compact Short FEL Sources : Seeding and LWFA based FEL
 


 

M. Labat, M.-E. Couprie, A. Loulergue
                       SOLEIL, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
S. Bielawski
                       PhLAM/CERCLA, Villeneuve d'Ascq Cedex, France
G. De Ninno
                       Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A., Basovizza, Italy
L. Giannessi
                       ENEA C.R. Frascati, Frascati (Roma), Italy
N.Y. Joly
                       University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen-Nuremberg, Germany
P.St.J. Russell
                       Max Planck Institute for the Science of Light, Erlangen, Germany

 


 

The seeding technique, proposed to improve the FEL temporal coherence and to enable more compact schemes, progressed significantly during this last decade. After conventionnal laser sources, eventually doubled or tripled in crystal, high order harmonics generated in gas were successfully used, bringing FELs in the XUV range. We are now involved in the demonstration of a new scheme, using fiber based tunable ultraviolet source. Its output power and tunability are of high interest. Last results obtained with the MaxPlanck Institute and the SPARC teams are presented. Seeding can lead to complex dynamics between the electron and the light pulse. Numerical studies revealed possible pulse splitting effects. We will report on their possible observation in collaboration with the FERMI team. Future FELs may also rely on emerging accelerators generated by laser wakefiled acceleration. Recently, the LUNEX5 project was proposed in France. It consists in one undulator line, fed by either a conventionnal LINAC or a laser wakefield accelerator (LWFA), to deliver XUV fs pulses to pilot user experiments. Preliminary work on radiation optimization of an FEL based on a LWFA will be also presented.

 


 




