













FEL2012 - Table of Session: TUOAI (Seeding and Seeded FELs)


TUOAI —  Seeding and Seeded FELs   (28-Aug-12   09:00—10:30)



Paper
Title
Page



TUOAI01
First Direct Seeding at 38nm
197


 

C. Lechner, A. Azima, J. Bödewadt, M. Drescher, E. Hass, U. Hipp, Th. Maltezopoulos, V. Miltchev, M. Rehders, J. Rönsch-Schulenburg, J. Roßbach, R. Tarkeshian, M. Wieland
                       Uni HH, Hamburg, Germany
S. Ackermann, S. Bajt, H. Dachraoui, H. Delsim-Hashemi, S. Düsterer, B. Faatz, K. Honkavaara, T. Laarmann, M. Mittenzwey, H. Schlarb, S. Schreiber, L. Schroedter, M. Tischer
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany
F. Curbis
                       MAX-lab, Lund, Sweden
R. Ischebeck
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland
S. Khan
                       DELTA, Dortmund, Germany
V. Wacker
                       University of Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

Funding: The project is supported by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research of Germany under contract No. 05 K10GU1 and by the German Research Foundation programme graduate school 1355.
The sFLASH project at DESY is an experiment to study direct seeding using a source based on the high-harmonic generation (HHG) process. In contrast to SASE, a seeded FEL exhibits greatly improved longitudinal coherence and higher shot-to-shot stability (both spectral and energetic). In addition, the output of the seeded FEL is intrinsically synchronized to the HHG drive laser, thus enabling pump-probe experiments with a resolution of the order of 10 fs. The installation and successful commissioning of the sFLASH components in 2010/2011 has been followed by a planned upgrade in autumn 2011. As a result of these improvements, in spring 2012 direct HHG seeding at 38 nm has been successfully demonstrated. In this contribution, we describe the experimental layout and announce the first seeding at 38 nm.

 






Slides TUOAI01 [11.553 MB]
            
 


 



TUOAI02
Hard X-ray Self-Seeding at the LCLS
 


 

R.R. Lindberg, W. Berg, D. Shu, Yu. Shvyd'ko, S. Stoupin, E. Trakhtenberg, A. Zholents
                       ANL, Argonne, USA
J.W. Amann, F.-J. Decker, Y.T. Ding, Y. Feng, J.C. Frisch, D. Fritz, J.B. Hastings, Z. Huang, J. Krzywinski, H. Loos, A.A. Lutman, H.-D. Nuhn, D.F. Ratner, J.A. Rzepiela, D.R. Walz, J.J. Welch, J. Wu, D. Zhu
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA
V.D. Blank, S. Terentiev
                       TISNCM, Troitsk, Russia
P. Emma
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA
S. Spampinati
                       Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A., Basovizza, Italy

 


 

Funding: U.S. Dept. of Energy Office of Sciences under Contract No. DE-AC02-06CH11357
The Linac Coherent Light Source (LCLS) has produced extremely bright hard x-ray pulses using self-amplified spontaneous emission (SASE) since 2009. In SASE, the electron beam shot noise initiates the FEL gain, resulting in output radiation characterized by poor temporal coherence and a fluctuating spectrum whose normalized width is given by the FEL bandwidth. Recently, colleagues at DESY suggested a self-seeding scheme for the LCLS to reduce the bandwidth*. Here, the SASE produced in the first half of the undulator line is put through a simple diamond-based monochromator; the resulting monochromatic light trailing the main SASE pulse is used to seed the FEL interaction in the downstream undulators. We report on the experimental results implementing such a scheme at the LCLS, in which we have measured a reduction in bandwidth by a factor of 40-50 from that of SASE at 8-9 keV. The self-seeded FEL operates close to saturation, with the maximum output energy approximately equal to that with no seeding for low charge. The observed level of power fluctuations in the seeded output is presently rather large, and future plans focus on discovering their origins and reducing their magnitude.
* Geloni, V. Kocharyan ,and E.L. Saldin, DESY 10-133, arXiv:1008.3036 (2010) 

 






Slides TUOAI02 [22.104 MB]
            
 


 




