













FEL2013 - Table of Session: THOANO (Seeding & Harmonics)


THOANO —  Seeding & Harmonics   (29-Aug-13   09:30—10:30)
Chair: L. Giannessi, CSU, Fort Collins, Colorado, USA


Paper
Title
Page



THOANO01
Stable Operation of HHG-Seeded EUV-FEL at the SCSS Test Accelerator
728


 

H. Tomizawa, T. Hara, T. Ishikawa, K. Ogawa, H. Tanaka, T. Tanaka, T. Togashi, K. Togawa, M. Yabashi
                       RIKEN SPring-8 Center, Sayo-cho, Sayo-gun, Hyogo, Japan
M. Aoyama, K. Yamakawa
                       JAEA/Kansai, Kyoto, Japan
A. Iwasaki, S. Owada, T. Sato, K. Yamanouchi
                       The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan
S. Matsubara, Y. Okayasu, T. Watanabe
                       JASRI/SPring-8, Hyogo, Japan
K. Midorikawa, E. Takahashi
                       RIKEN, Saitama, Japan

 


 

We performed the higher-order harmonic (HH) seeded FEL operation at a 61.2 nm fundamental wavelength, using a seeding source of HH pulses from a Ti:sapphire laser at the SCSS (EUV-FEL) accelerator. It is important for the HH seeded FEL scheme to synchronize the seeding laser pulses to the electron bunches. We constructed the relative arrival timing monitor based on Electro-Optic sampling (EOS). Since the EOS-probe laser pulses were optically split from HH-driving laser pulses, the arrival time difference of the seeding laser pulses, with respect to the electron bunches, were measured bunch-by-bunch. This non-invasive EOS monitor made uninterrupted, real-time monitoring possible even during the seeded FEL operation. The EOS system was used for the arrival timing feedback with a few-hundred-femtosecond adjustability for continual operation of the HH-seeded FEL. By using the EOS-locking system, the HH seeded FEL was operated over half a day with a 20-30% hit rate. The output pulse energy reached 20uJ at the 61.2 nm wavelength. A user experiment was performed by using the seeded EUV-EL and a clear difference between the SASE-FEL and the seeded FEL was observed.

 






Slides THOANO01 [11.493 MB]
        
 


 



THOANO02
Experimental Demonstration of Echo-enabled Harmonic Generation at the 14th Harmonic
 


 

D. Xiang, M.P. Dunning, C. Hast, E. Hemsing, T.O. Raubenheimer, S.P. Weathersby
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by U.S. DOE under Contract No. DE-AC02-76SF00515.
Following the successful demonstration of echo-enabled harmonic generation [1] (EEHG [2]) with n=7 [3] at SLAC's NLCTA in 2011 [4], the beam line has been upgraded recently to benchmark EEHG theory at much higher harmonics. An optical parametric amplifier has been used to provide a seed with wavelength at 2.4 μm. Using an rf undulator as the radiator, coherent radiation at the 14th harmonic of the seed, i.e. with wavelength at 171 nm, has been generated using EEHG technique with a 120 MeV beam. We will present detailed experimental results on testing EEHG at n=14. Future plans in testing EEHG at n=30~75 in the coming year will be briefly discussed as well.
[1] G. Stupakov, PRL 102, 074801 (2009).  [2] D. Xiang and G. Stupakov, PRST-AB 12, 030702 (2009).  [3] D. Xiang et al., PRL 105, 114801 (2010). [4] D. Xiang et al., PRL 108, 024802 (2012)

 






Slides THOANO02 [2.288 MB]
        
 


 



THOANO03
Experimental Characterization of the Laser Heater Effects on a Seeded FEL
 


 

E. Ferrari, E. Allaria, W.M. Fawley, L. Giannessi, G. Penco, S. Spampinati
                       Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A., Basovizza, Italy
W.M. Fawley
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA
L. Giannessi
                       ENEA C.R. Frascati, Frascati (Roma), Italy
Z. Huang
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

High brightness electron beams necessary for high gain FEL usually require a laser heater in order to increase the local energy spread in the low energy part of the machine that can mitigate the microbunching instabilities developing in the compressors and in the rest of the linac. Microbunching suppression is essential for FEL operations both in SASE and in seeded mode since it can strongly affect the final electron beam properties. In the case of HGHG, due to the seeding mechanism, the FEL process is extremely sensitive to the amount of energy spread at the undulator entrance, and the FEL output may depend to the amount of heating. In this work we characterize the dependence of the FEL output as a function of the laser heater intensity in the case of FERMI FEL-1. Results also show that for a non Gaussian distribution of the electron beam energy the HGHG may produce significant radiation with an energy spread significantly higher than what expected for a simple Gaussian distribution.

 






Slides THOANO03 [2.333 MB]
        
 


 



THOANO04
Experimental Studies of Echo-enabled HG FEL
 


 

Z.T. Zhao
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China
D. Xiang
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

After echo-enabled HG FEL was studied theoretically and numerically, several experiments have been done to verify it. An overview of the experiments over the world and new understanding of it will be given in this talk.

 






Slides THOANO04 [18.207 MB]
        
 


 




