













FEL2013 - Table of Session: MOICNO (Beam Physics)


MOICNO —  Beam Physics   (26-Aug-13   13:30—14:30)
Chair: G. Geloni, DESY, Hamburg, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



MOICNO01
Generation of a Train of Short Pulses by Means of FEL Emission of a Combed Electron Beam
2


 

V. Petrillo
                       Universita' degli Studi di Milano, Milano, Italy
M.P. Anania, M. Bellaveglia, E. Chiadroni, D. Di Giovenale, G. Di Pirro, M. Ferrario, G. Gatti, R. Pompili, C. Vaccarezza, F. Villa
                       INFN/LNF, Frascati (Roma), Italy
M. Artioli
                       ENEA-Bologna, Bologna, Italy
A. Bacci, A.R. Rossi
                       Istituto Nazionale di Fisica Nucleare, Milano, Italy
A. Cianchi
                       Università di Roma II Tor Vergata, Roma, Italy
F. Ciocci, G. Dattoli, L. Giannessi, A. Petralia, M. Quattromini, C. Ronsivalle, E. Sabia
                       ENEA C.R. Frascati, Frascati (Roma), Italy
A. Mostacci
                       Rome University La Sapienza, Roma, Italy
P. Musumeci
                       UCLA, Los Angeles, California, USA
J.V. Rau
                       ISM-CNR, Rome, Italy

 


 

We present a direct and powerful method for generating train of radiation pulses based on the FEL radiation from a multi-peaked electron beam produced with a combed laser pulse accelerated and compressed in a linac by the velocity bunching technique. The electron beam, constituted by two bunches, can be extracted from the accelerating section when they are temporaly superimposed but separated in energy, so that each of them is characterized by a different value of the Lorentz factor. When driven in the FEL undulator, they emit two separate spectral lines, according to the FEL resonance condition, that interfere producing fringes in the time-domain. In this way a train of regular pulses can be obtained, without limitation in frequency, and with the perspective of reaching the attosecond domain in the X ray regime.

 






Slides MOICNO01 [8.836 MB]
        
 


 



MOICNO02
Control of Electron Beam Longitudinal Phase Space With a Novel Compact De-chirper for PAL-XFEL
 


 

H.-S. Kang, M.S. Chae, T. Ha, J.H. Hong, W.W. Lee, S.J. Park, H. Yang
                       PAL, Pohang, Kyungbuk, Republic of Korea

 


 

The PAL-XFEL adopts a de-chirper system to remove the residual beam chirps with wakefield in corrugated pipes for the soft X-ray FEL line which is branched at 3 GeV point of the 10-GeV linac and does not have enough length of accelerating structures. The corrugated structure which is about 20 m long is designed to have the rectangular geometry and adjust the gap from 2 to 30 mm. We carried out the elegant code simulations using the wake formulas of G. Stupakov and K. Bane for the rectangular geometry to find the optimum parameters of corrugation using longitudinal wakes as well as to find the tolerance of vertical offset using transverse wakes. A 1-m long test de-chirper module is being designed and will be tested experimentally in July 2013 at the injector test facility in Pohang Accelerator Laboratory, which is a collaborative R&D with LBNL and SLAC.
Recommended by Zhirong Huang

 






Slides MOICNO02 [10.661 MB]
        
 


 




