













FEL2013 - Table of Session: MOOBNO (New Lasings)


MOOBNO —  New Lasings   (26-Aug-13   11:00—12:00)
Chair: V. Yakimenko, SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA


Paper
Title
Page



MOOBNO01
First Lasing of FERMI FEL-2
1


 

L. Giannessi, E. Allaria, D. Castronovo, P. Cinquegrana, G. D'Auria, M. Dal Forno, M.B. Danailov, G. De Ninno, A.A. Demidovich, S. Di Mitri, B. Diviacco, W.M. Fawley, M. Ferianis, E. Ferrari, L. Fröhlich, G. Gaio, R. Ivanov, B. Mahieu, N. Mahne, I. Nikolov, F. Parmigiani, G. Penco, L. Raimondi, C. Serpico, P. Sigalotti, C. Spezzani, M. Svandrlik, C. Svetina, M. Trovò, M. Veronese, D. Zangrando, M. Zangrando
                       Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A., Basovizza, Italy
M. Dal Forno
                       DEEI, Trieste, Italy
G. De Ninno, D. Gauthier
                       University of Nova Gorica, Nova Gorica, Slovenia
E. Ferrari, F. Parmigiani
                       Università degli Studi di Trieste, Trieste, Italy
L. Giannessi
                       ENEA C.R. Frascati, Frascati (Roma), Italy
B. Mahieu
                       CEA/DSM/DRECAM/SPAM, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
M. Zangrando
                       IOM-CNR, Trieste, Italy

 


 

During the month of October 2012 the commissioning of the light source FEL-2 at FERMI was successfully concluded. Fermi FEL-2 is the first seeded FEL operating with a double stage cascade in the "fresh bunch injection" mode*. The two stages are two high gain harmonic generation FELs where the first stage is seeded by the 3rd harmonic of a Ti:Sa laser system, which is up converted to the 4th-6th harmonic. The output of the first stage is then used to seed the second stage. A final wavelengths of 10.8 nm was obtained as the 24th harmonic of the seed wavelength at the end of the two frequency conversion processes, demonstrating that the FEL is capable of producing single mode narrow bandwidth pulses with an energy of several tens of microjoules.
*I. Ben-Zvi, K. M. Yang, L. H. Yu, ”The ”fresh-bunch” technique in FELs”, NIM A 318 (1992), p 726-729

 






Slides MOOBNO01 [25.265 MB]
        
 


 



MOOBNO02
FEL Operation With the Superconducting RF Photo Gun at ELBE
 


 

J. Teichert, A. Arnold, H. Büttig, M. Justus, U. Lehnert, P.N. Lu, P. Michel, P. Murcek, R. Schurig, W. Seidel, H. Vennekate, R. Xiang
                       HZDR, Dresden, Germany
T. Kamps, J. Rudolph
                       HZB, Berlin, Germany
I. Will
                       MBI, Berlin, Germany

 


 

The superconducting RF photoinjector (SRF gun) operating with a 31/2-cell niobium cavity and Cs2Te photocathodes is installed at the ELBE radiation center. The gun provides beams for ELBE as well as in a separate diagnostics beam line for beam parameter measurements. Since 2012 a new UV driver laser system developed by MBI has been installed for the SRF gun . It delivers CW or bust mode pulses with 13 MHz repetition rate or with reduced rates of 500, 200, and 100 kHz at an average UV power of about 1 W. The new laser allows the gun to serve as the driver for the infrared FELs at ELBE. In the first successful experiment a 250 μA beam with 3.3 MeV from SRF gun was injected into ELBE, further accelerated in the ELBE superconducting linac modules and then guided to the U100 undulator. First lasing was achieved at the wavelength of 41 μm. The spectrum, detuning curve and further parameters were measured.

 






Slides MOOBNO02 [7.458 MB]
        
 


 



MOOBNO03
First Lasing of an Echo-enabled Harmonic Generation Free-electron Laser
 


 

Z.T. Zhao
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China

 


 

Free-electron lasers have been successfully operated with ultra- high brightness and excellent transverse coherence at X-ray wavelengths 1–4 . One of the next goals for further improvements is full coherence 5,6 . An obvious approach is to seed the free- electron laser interaction using a conventional source that has good temporal coherence 7–12 . Here, we show the ﬁrst lasing of a free-electron laser with an echo-enabled harmonic generation scheme 11 , which shows great promise for producing coherent lasing at short wavelengths, even in the X-ray regime.

 






Slides MOOBNO03 [14.478 MB]
        
 


 



MOOBNO04
First Light from the ELBE THz Radiation Facility
 


 

U. Lehnert, C. Bauer, M. Gensch, B.W. Green, S. Kovalev, M. Kuntzsch, W. Seidel
                       HZDR, Dresden, Germany
T. Golz, A. Shemmary, N. Stojanovic
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

A new super-radiant THz source has successfully been put into operation at the ELBE radiation source. The facility combines a broad-band transition or diffraction radiation source with an 8 period undulator. Both sources are inherently synchronized by generating radiation from the same electron bunch. This, together with the possibility to operate the machine in CW with repetition rates of 100kHz to 13MHz makes the new source a very versatile tool for a broad range of experiments, particularly for THz based electron bunch diagnostics. With the low beam energy (our first experiments were done at 28 MeV) the bunch compression becomes a major challenge. We have generated coherent radiation with wavelengths as short as 200 microns indicating a compression of a major fraction of the bunch into a pulse with 200 fs bunchlength. Our design target is a compression down to 100 fs and to reach 100 micron wavelength (3THz).

 






Slides MOOBNO04 [3.602 MB]
        
 


 




