













FEL2012 - Table of Session: WEOAI (FEL Technology -1-)


WEOAI —  FEL Technology -1-   (29-Aug-12   09:00—10:30)



Paper
Title
Page



WEOAI01
APEX Initial Commissioning Results
337


 

D. Filippetto, B.J. Bailey, K.M. Baptiste, C.W. Cork, J.N. Corlett, S. De Santis, S.F. Dimaggio, L.R. Doolittle, J.A. Doyle, G. Huang, H. Huang, T.D. Kramasz, S. Kwiatkowski, R.E. Lellinger, W.E. Norum, C. F. Papadopoulos, G.C. Pappas, G.J. Portmann, F. Sannibale, J.W. Staples, M. Vinco, R.P. Wells, M.S. Zolotorev, F.A. Zucca
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA
F.V. Moroz
                       PNPI, Gatchina, Leningrad District, Russia
C.M. Pogue
                       NPS, Monterey, California, USA

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by the Director of the Office of Science of the US Department of Energy under Contract no. DEAC02-05CH11231
APEX the Advanced Photo-injector EXperiment at LBNL is devoted to the development of a MHz-class repetition rate high-brightness electron injector for X-ray FELs. APEX is based on a novel room-temperature 186 MHz RF gun operating in CW mode in conjunction with high quantum efficiency photocathodes capable of the required repetition rates with commercial lasers. APEX is organized in 3 phases. Phase 0 includes the demonstration of several important milestones for the project. The gun must be conditioned at full RF power in CW mode; the vacuum performance, directly impacting the lifetime of photocathodes, needs to be characterized; and different photocathodes will be tested at full repetition rate at the nominal gun energy of 750 keV. In Phase I, a new suite of beam diagnostics will be added to characterize the electron beam at the gun energy and at full repetition rate. In Phase II, a pulsed linac will be added for accelerating the beam at ~30 MeV to reduce space charge effects and measure the brightness performance of the gun when integrated in an injector scheme. Phase 0 is presently under commissioning and the first experimental results from this phase are presented.

 






Slides WEOAI01 [13.265 MB]
            
 


 




