













FEL2012 - Table of Session: TUOA (Seeding and Seeded FELs)


TUOA —  Seeding and Seeded FELs   (28-Aug-12   09:00—10:30)



Paper
Title
Page



TUOA03
Two Novel Laser-Based Seeding Schemes for X-ray FELs
 


 

Q.R. Marksteiner, K. Bishofberger, B.E. Carlsten, L.D. Duffy, C.M. Fortgang, P.L. Walstrom, N.A. Yampolsky
                       LANL, Los Alamos, New Mexico, USA

 


 

Funding: We acknowledge the support of the LDRD program at Los Alamos National Laboratory.
The proposed Matter-Radiation Interactions in Extremes (MaRIE) hard X-ray facility at Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL) has some user requirements that require longitudinal bandwidths that are an order of magnitude smaller than the bandwidths provided by a SASE FEL. We discuss two novel laser-based harmonic generation schemes for x-ray FELs which could be incorporated into x-ray FELs in order to achieve these bandwidths. The first scheme is a hybrid of Echo-Enabled Harmonic Generation (EEHG) and High-Gain Harmonic Generation (HGHG), which only requires a single laser with relatively low power, compared with EEHG. The second scheme uses a pair of Emittance Exchangers (EEX) after a laser modulator, in order to compress the modulation by a large factor. The strengths and design constraints of these schemes will be discussed, and a general formulism for studying the evolution of bandwidth and bunching factors in a complex seeding scheme will be presented [Yampolsky, arXiv:111.0553v1]. We will show how the hybrid EEHG-HGHG scheme can be incorporated into the NGLS for increased seeding performance.

 






Slides TUOA03 [3.702 MB]
            
 


 



TUOA04
Coherence Properties of FERMI@Elettra
 


 

B. Mahieu, E. Allaria, G. De Ninno, E. Ferrari, F. Parmigiani, L. Raimondi, S. Spampinati, C. Spezzani, C. Svetina, M. Zangrando
                       Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A., Basovizza, Italy
B. Mahieu
                       CEA/DSM/DRECAM/SPAM, Gif-sur-Yvette, France

 


 

We report the results of a campaign of measurements aimed at characterizing the spatial and temporal coherence of the FERMI@Elettra free-electron laser. The results (the first obtained on a high-gain seeded single-pass free-electron laser), are compared with those obtained on other (SASE-based) facilities.

 






Slides TUOA04 [3.274 MB]
            
 


 




