













FEL2012 - Table of Session: FROA (Progress and Projects)


FROA —  Progress and Projects   (31-Aug-12   09:00—10:30)



Paper
Title
Page



FROA02
A Next Generation Light Source at LBNL
 


 

J.N. Corlett
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the Director, Office of Science, of the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract No. DE-AC02-05CH11231
We describe design and R&D progress toward a Next Generation Light Source at LBNL. This future facility, an array of FELs driven by a high repetition-rate and high brightness beam from a CW superconducting linac, will be a transformative new facility for X-ray science. Uniform spacing of bunches, at MHz repetition rate, distributed to independently operating FELs, provides high-power soft X-ray beams of up to ~100 W each. Seeding and self-seeding provide high temporal coherence, with tunability and photon energies to 1.2 keV (1 nm) in the fundamental.

 






Slides FROA02 [11.447 MB]
            
 


 



FROA03
The LUNEX5 Project
678


 

M.-E. Couprie
                       CEA/DSM, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
C. Benabderrahmane, P. Betinelli-Deck, F. Bouvet, A. Buteau, L. Cassinari, J. Daillant, J.-C. Denard, C. Evain, P. Eymard, B. Gagey, C. Herbeaux, M. Labat, A. Lestrade, A. Loulergue, P. Marchand, O. Marcouillé, J.L. Marlats, C. Miron, P. Morin, A. Nadji, F. Polack, J.B. Pruvost, F. Ribeiro, J.P. Ricaud, P. Roy, T. Tanikawa
                       SOLEIL, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
S. Bielawski, C. Szwaj
                       PhLAM/CERCLA, Villeneuve d'Ascq Cedex, France
B. Carré
                       CEA, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
J. Chavanne, L. Farvacque, G. Lebec
                       ESRF, Grenoble, France
X. Davoine
                       CEA/DAM/DIF, Arpajon, France
G. Devanz, M. Luong
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France
A. Dubois, J. Lüning
                       CCPMR, Paris, France
G. Lambert, R. Lehe, A. Lifschitz, V. Malka, A. Rousse, K. Ta Phuoc, C. Thaury
                       LOA, Palaiseau, France
R. Roux
                       LAL, Orsay, France

 


 

LUNEX5 (free electron Laser Using a New accelerator for the Exploitation of X-ray radiation of 5th generation) aims at investigating the production of short, intense, and coherent pulses in the soft X-ray region (with two particular targeted wavelengths of 20 and 13 nm on the fundamental wavelength). The project consists of a Free Electron Laser (FEL) line enabling the most advanced seeding configurations (High order Harmonic in Gas seeding and Echo Enable Harmonic Generation) and in-vacuum (potentially cryogenic) undulators of 15 and 30 mm period. Two accelerator types feed this FEL line : a Conventional Linear Accelerator (CLA) with superconducting cavities of 400 MeV for the investigations of the advanced FEL schemes, compatible with a future up-grade for high repetition rate; and a 0.4 - 1 GeV Laser Wake Field Accelerator (LWFA), to be qualified in view of FEL application, in the single spike or seeded regime. Two pilot user experiments for time-resolved studies of isolated species and solid state matter dynamics will take benefit of LUNEX5 FEL radiation and provide feedback of the performance of the different schemes under real user conditions.

 






Slides FROA03 [25.321 MB]
            
 


 



FROA04
New Laser Developments for Pump-probe Experiments at SwissFEL
 


 

C.P. Hauri, F. Ardana-Lamas, M. Divall Csatari, C. Ruchert, A. Trisorio, C. Vicario
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

We report on recent pump-probe laser source developments for SwissFEL. The demand of ultrashort laser sources in combination with few-femtosecond x-ray Free Electron Lasers is growing since such sources are a prerequisite for cutting-edge time-resolved investigations. Equally important is the precise arrival time measurement of short X-ray pulses in respect to the optical pump. To meet those requests adequate lasers need to be developed. Of particular interest is a compact, laser-based THz source (λ=60 to 300 um) delivering single-cycle pulses with amplitude of up to 1.5 MV/cm and 0.5 Tesla, respectively. Such strong THz pump lasers allow parasitic use for high-precision arrival time measurement between the x-ray pulse and the optical laser at the experimental station. We show that such intense THz pulses can be efficiently generated in the so-called THz gap (1-10 THz) by means of nonlinear frequency conversion in organic crystals. We furthermore present an overview on high-power single cycle pulses in the infrared wavelength rage (λ=1-20 um) and latest progress on high-power HHG-based seeding lasers at shortest wavelengths.

 






Slides FROA04 [3.811 MB]
            
 


 




