













FEL2013 - Table of Session: TUOCNO (Technology I)


TUOCNO —  Technology I   (27-Aug-13   14:00—15:30)
Chair: A.H. Lumpkin, AAI/ANL, Argonne, USA


Paper
Title
Page



TUOCNO01
Electron Beam Longitudinal Phase Space Manipulation by Means of an AD-HOC Photoinjector Laser Pulse Shaping
180


 

G. Penco, D. Castronovo, M.B. Danailov, G. De Ninno, A.A. Demidovich, S. Di Mitri, W.M. Fawley, L. Giannessi, C. Spezzani, M. Trovò
                       Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A., Basovizza, Italy

 


 

In a seeded FEL machine as FERMI, the interplay between the electrons energy curvature and the seed laser frequency chirp has a relevant impact on the output FEL spectrum. It is therefore crucial controlling and manipulating the electron beam longitudinal phase space at the undulator entrance. In case of very short bunches, i.e. high compression scheme, the longitudinal wakefields generated in the linac induce a positive quadratic curvature in the electrons longitudinal phase space that is hard to compensate by tuning the phase of the main RF sections or the possible high harmonic cavity. At FERMI we have experimentally exploited a longitudinal ramp current distribution at the cathode, obtained with an ad-hoc photoinjector laser pulse shaping, to linearize the longitudinal wakefields in the downstream linac and flatten the electrons energy distribution, as theoretical foreseen in [1]. Longitudinal phase space measurements in this novel configuration are here presented, providing a comparison with the typical longitudinal flat-top profile.
[1] Phys. Rev. Special Topics - Accel. and Beams 9 (12), 120701 (2006)

 






Slides TUOCNO01 [28.792 MB]
        
 


 



TUOCNO02
High Brightness and High Average Current Performance of the Cornell ERL Injector
 


 

B.M. Dunham, A.C. Bartnik, I.V. Bazarov, L. Cultrera, J. Dobbins, C.M. Gulliford, Z. Zhao
                       Cornell University (CLASSE), Cornell Laboratory for Accelerator-Based Sciences and Education, Ithaca, New York, USA

 


 

Funding: National Science Foundation, DMR-0807731
High-power, high-brightness electron beams are of interest for many applications, especially as drivers for free electron lasers and energy recovery linac light sources. For these particular applications, photoemission injectors are used in most cases and the initial beam brightness from the injector sets a limit on the quality of the light generated at the end of the accelerator. At Cornell University, we have built such a high-power injector using a DC photoemission gun followed by a superconducting accelerating module. Recent results will be presented demonstrating record setting performance of high average current and beam brightness.

 






Slides TUOCNO02 [4.152 MB]
        
 


 



TUOCNO03
Progress in a Photocathode DC Gun at the Compact ERL
184


 

N. Nishimori, R. Hajima, S.M. Matsuba, R. Nagai
                       JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan
Y. Honda, T. Miyajima, M. Yamamoto
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
H. Iijima, M. Kuriki
                       HU/AdSM, Higashi-Hiroshima, Japan
M. Kuwahara
                       Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan

 


 

Photocathode DC gun to produce a train of electron bunch at high-average current and small emittance is a key component of advanced accelerators for high-power beams. However, DC guns operated at a voltage above 350 kV have suffered from field emitted electrons from a support rod since the development of Lasertron in 1980's. This critical issue has been resolved by a novel configuration, segmented insulator and guard rings, adopted in a DC gun at JAEA and stable application of high voltage at 550 kV has been demonstrated. The gun has been installed at the Compact ERL at KEK and ready for the beam generation. Similar type of DC guns are under development at KEK, Cornell, JLAB and IHEP. In this talk, we present progress in photocathode DC gun for high voltage and small emittance.

 






Slides TUOCNO03 [4.946 MB]
        
 


 



TUOCNO04
Feasibility of CW and LP Operation of the XFEL Linac
189


 

J.K. Sekutowicz, V. Ayvazyan, J. Branlard, M. Ebert, J. Eschke, T. Feldmann, A. Gössel, D. Kostin, I.M. Kudla, W. Merz, F. Mittag, C. Müller, R. Onken, I. Sandvoss, E. Schneidmiller, A.A. Sulimov, M.V. Yurkov
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany
W. Cichalewski, A. Piotrowski, K.P. Przygoda
                       TUL-DMCS, Łódź, Poland
K. Czuba
                       Warsaw University of Technology, Institute of Electronic Systems, Warsaw, Poland
W. Jałmużna
                       Embedded Integrated Control Systems GmbH, Hamburg, Germany
J. Szewiński
                       NCBJ, Świerk/Otwock, Poland

 


 

The European XFEL superconducting linac is based on cavities and cryomodules (CM) developed for TESLA linear collider. The XFEL linac will operate nominally in short pulse (sp) mode with 1.3 ms RF pulses (650 μs rise time and 650 μs long bunch train). For 240 ns bunch spacing and 10 Hz RF-pulse repetition rate, up to 27000 bunches per second can be accelerated to 17.5 GeV to generate uniquely high average brilliance photon beams at very short wavelengths. While many experiments can take advantage of full bunch trains, others prefer an increased to several μ-seconds intra-pulse distance between bunches, or short bursts with a kHz repetition rate. For these types of experiments, the high average brilliance can be preserved only with duty factors much larger than that of the currently proposed sp operation. In this contribution, we discuss progress in the R&D program for future upgrade of the European XFEL linac, namely an operation in the continuous wave (cw) and long pulse (lp) mode, which will allow for more flexibility in the electron and photon beam time structure.

 






Slides TUOCNO04 [8.910 MB]
        
 


 



TUOCNO05
Design Concepts for a Next Generation Light Source at LBNL
193


 

J.N. Corlett, A.P. Allezy, D. Arbelaez, K.M. Baptiste, J.M. Byrd, C.S. Daniels, S. De Santis, W.W. Delp, P. Denes, R.J. Donahue, L.R. Doolittle, P. Emma, D. Filippetto, J.G. Floyd, J.P. Harkins, G. Huang, J.-Y. Jung, D. Li, T.P. Lou, T.H. Luo, G. Marcus, M.T. Monroy, H. Nishimura, H.A. Padmore, C. F. Papadopoulos, G.C. Pappas, S. Paret, G. Penn, M. Placidi, S. Prestemon, D. Prosnitz, H.J. Qian, J. Qiang, A. Ratti, M.W. Reinsch, D. Robin, F. Sannibale, R.W. Schoenlein, C. Serrano, J.W. Staples, C. Steier, C. Sun, M. Venturini, W.L. Waldron, W. Wan, T. Warwick, R.P. Wells, R.B. Wilcox, S. Zimmermann, M.S. Zolotorev
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA
C. Adolphsen, K.L.F. Bane, Y. Ding, Z. Huang, C.D. Nantista, C.-K. Ng, H.-D. Nuhn, C.H. Rivetta, G.V. Stupakov
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA
D. Arenius, G. Neil, T. Powers, J.P. Preble
                       JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA
C.M. Ginsburg, R.D. Kephart, A.L. Klebaner, T.J. Peterson, A.I. Sukhanov
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the Director, Office of Science, of the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract No. DE-AC02-05CH11231
The NGLS collaboration is developing design concepts for a multi-beamline soft x-ray FEL array powered by a superconducting linear accelerator, operating with a high bunch repetition rate of approximately 1 MHz. The CW superconducting linear accelerator design is based on developments of TESLA and ILC technology, and is supplied by an injector based on a high-brightness, high-repetition-rate photocathode electron gun. Electron bunches from the linac are distributed by RF deflecting cavities to the array of independently configurable FEL beamlines with nominal bunch rates of ~100 kHz in each FEL, with uniform pulse spacing, and some FELs capable of operating at the full linac bunch rate. Individual FELs may be configured for different modes of operation, including self-seeded and external-laser-seeded, and each may produce high peak and average brightness x-rays with a flexible pulse format, and with pulse durations ranging from femtoseconds and shorter, to hundreds of femtoseconds. In this paper we describe current design concepts, and progress in R&D activities.

 






Slides TUOCNO05 [5.982 MB]
        
 


 



TUOCNO06
Slice Emittance Optimization at the SwissFEL Injector Test Facility
200


 

E. Prat, M. Aiba, S. Bettoni, B. Beutner, M.W. Guetg, R. Ischebeck, S. Reiche, T. Schietinger
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

Slice emittance measurements in the SwissFEL injector test facility have demonstrated emittances for the 10pC-200pC bunch charges which are well below the tight requirements of SwissFEL. Results, emittance tuning strategy and measurement methods are reported.

 






Slides TUOCNO06 [0.537 MB]
        
 


 




