













FEL2012 - Table of Session: MOOB (New Lasing and Status Report)


MOOB —  New Lasing and Status Report   (27-Aug-12   10:30—12:00)



Paper
Title
Page



MOOB01
First Lasing of the IR FEL at the Fritz-Haber-Institut Berlin
1


 

W. Schöllkopf, W. Erlebach, S. Gewinner, G. Heyne, H. Junkes, A. Liedke, G. Meijer, V. Platschkowski, W.Q. Zhang, G. von Helden
                       FHI, Berlin, Germany
H. Bluem, D. Dowell, K. Jordan, R. Lange, J.H. Park, J. Rathke, A.M.M. Todd, L.M. Young
                       AES, Princeton, New Jersey, USA
M.A. Davidsaver
                       BNL, Upton, New York, USA
S.C. Gottschalk
                       STI, Washington, USA
U. Lehnert, P. Michel, W. Seidel, R. Wünsch
                       HZDR, Dresden, Germany
H. Loos
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

An IR and THz FEL with a design wavelength range from 4 to 500 μm has been commissioned at the Fritz-Haber-Institut (FHI) in Berlin, Germany, for applications in, i.a., molecular and cluster spectroscopy as well as surface science.[1] The linac[2] comprises two S-band standing-wave copper structures. The first one operates at near fixed field to accelerate the electrons to 20 MeV, while the second one is designed to accelerate (or decelerate) to any final energy between 15 and 50 MeV. A key aspect of the system is low longitudinal emittance, <50 keV-psec, at more than 200 pC bunch charge with a max.μpulse rep. rate of 1 GHz. The up to 15 μs long macro pulses come at a rate of up to 20 Hz. The electrons are steered through either one of two FELs. A single-plane-focusing, 40 mm period wedged-pole hybrid undulator[3] combined with a 5.4 m long cavity has been commissioned for the mid-IR (<50 μm). In addition, a two-plane-focusing undulator in combination with a 7.2 m long cavity with a 1-d waveguide for the optical mode is planned for the far-IR. In February 2012 we observed 'first lasing' at 28 MeV and 18 μm wavelength. We will present first results characterizing the system.
[1] W. Schöllkopf et al., "Status of the Fritz Haber Institute THz FEL", Paper TUPB30, Proc. FEL 2011.  [2] Advanced Energy Systems, Inc., Medford, NY, USA [3] STI Optronics, Inc., Bellevue, WA, USA

 






Slides MOOB01 [3.440 MB]
            
 


 



MOOB02
First Lasing of the Terahertz FEL FLARE
 


 

R.T. Jongma, R. Bakker, C. Berkhout, A.C.N. Engels, R.W. Lof, C. Sikkens, F.J.P. Wijnen, B. Willemsen, G.F.A.J. Wulterkens, P.A.W. van Dael, A.J.A. van Roij, A.P. van Vliet, A.F.G. van der Meer, W.J. van der Zande
                       Radboud University, Nijmegen, The Netherlands
K. Dunkel, A. Metz, C. Piel
                       RI Research Instruments GmbH, Bergisch Gladbach, Germany
U. Lehnert
                       HZDR, Dresden, Germany

 


 

Funding: The Nijmegen THz-FEL is funded via the 'Big Facilities' programme of the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO).
Early 2011 we commenced the assembly of FLARE, the Free-electron Laser for Advanced spectroscopy and high-Resolution Experiments, in its dedicated, new building. FLARE will operate as a pulsed FEL in the 100-1500 micron range and is, amongst others, intended for spectroscopy in very high magnetic fields and (bio) molecular spectroscopy [1, 2]. After completion of the move of FELIX and FELICE to the Radboud University, FLARE will operate as part of the FELIX facility Nijmegen. Challenging in the design, assembly and operation of the FLARE cavity are the parallel plate waveguide that extends over the full cavity length and the outcoupling slit. In June 2011 the commissioning of the accelerator and optical cavity of FLARE was started, resulting in first lasing on September 26 of 2011. Since then, FLARE demonstrated lasing between 100 micron and 1400 micron at output powers meeting the design values. Until the end of 2012, the optical distribution system serving all the user-stations as well as the high field magnets in the neighboring HFML will be assembled, after which FLARE will come on-line as part of the new user facility in Nijmegen.
[1] W.J. van der Zande, et. Al. Proc. FEL 2006, Berlin, Germany,  (2006) 485.  [2] R.T. Jongma, et al., Proc. FEL-2008, Gyeongju, South Korea, (2008) 200. 

 






Slides MOOB02 [40.645 MB]
            
 


 



MOOB03
Progress in SACLA Operation
5


 

T. Hara, H. Tanaka, K. Togawa
                       RIKEN SPring-8 Center, Sayo-cho, Sayo-gun, Hyogo, Japan

 


 

In March 2012, SACLA is open as a public user facility. Currently, 100-400 micro-J laser pulses ranging from 5 to 15 keV are provided to the user experiments. During the user time, the user can freely change the undulator gap to finely adjust the photon energy. While the first lasing was achieved at 10 keV after several months of machine commissioning, the pulse energy was about 30 micro-J, which is lower than the design value. In the autumn of 2011, we intensively worked on the reduction of a projected emittance, then 150 micro-J was finally obtained at 10 keV. After the cathode replacement in the winter shutdown, we re-tuned the accelerator and further increased the pulse energy to 250 micro-J. At the same time, the stability of the accelerator, particularly the injector section, has been improved, and an intensity fluctuation of 10-20 % (RMS) is currently achieved during day-to-day operation. Since the floor of the undulator hall still moves by 0.1 mm in 3 months, the beam orbit at the undulator section is re-aligned every 2 weeks to maintain the FEL performance. In this presentation, we will report the recent progress of the SACLA laser performance and operation.

 






Slides MOOB03 [1.349 MB]
            
 


 



MOOB04
SwissFEL, the X-ray Free Electron Laser at PSI
9


 

H.-H. Braun
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

PSI prepares the construction of an X-ray free electron laser, SwissFEL, as its next major research facility. The baseline design consists of a 5.8 GeV linear accelerator and two FEL lines covering the wavelength range from 0.1-0.7nm and 0.7-70nm, respectively. SwissFEL features a linear accelerator in C-band technology, a novel design of variable gap in-vacuum undulators for the hard X-ray FEL and Apple II undulators with full polarization control for the soft X-ray FEL. The two FELs are operated independently and simultaneously with 100 Hz pulse rate each. In addition to the FEL performance goals SwissFEL aims for a low overall energy consumption. Linac parameters as well as the cooling systems are optimized towards this goal. For the whole facility a staged construction is planned, with groundbreaking in spring 2013 and the commissioning of the linear accelerator and the hard X-ray FEL starting in 2016. An overview of SwissFEL goals, status and plans is given and the SwissFEL R&D activities are reviewed.

 






Slides MOOB04 [4.194 MB]
            
 


 



MOOB05
The European XFEL Project: Current Status and Future Development
 


 

M.T. Haas
                       XFEL. EU, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

Funding: European XFEL GmbH
The European XFEL is currently under construction in Hamburg, Germany. After completion in 2015 it will provide a highly versatile X-Ray FEL user facility covering the wavelength range from 300 eV to over 25 keV with a wide range of operating conditions. At the moment in time, the civil construction for the project is almost complete and the installation phase is starting. In this talk we review the state of the project and outline the steps that are foreseen from now until completion. We shall also discuss the plans for technical and machine commissioning. Finally we shall touch upon a number of future extensions and upgrades that are currently under discussion.

 






Slides MOOB05 [11.627 MB]
            
 


 



MOOB06
First Lasing of FERMI FEL-2 (1° Stage) and FERMI FEL-1 Recent Results
13


 

L. Giannessi, E. Allaria, L. Badano, D. Castronovo, P. Cinquegrana, P. Craievich, G. D'Auria, M.B. Danailov, A.A. Demidovich, S. Di Mitri, B. Diviacco, W.M. Fawley, E. Ferrari, L. Fröhlich, G. Gaio, R. Ivanov, E. Karantzoulis, B. Mahieu, N. Mahne, I. Nikolov, G. Penco, L. Raimondi, C. Serpico, P. Sigalotti, S. Spampinati, C. Spezzani, M. Svandrlik, C. Svetina, M. Trovò, M. Veronese, D. Zangrando, M. Zangrando
                       Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A., Basovizza, Italy
G. De Ninno
                       University of Nova Gorica, Nova Gorica, Slovenia
F. Parmigiani
                       Università degli Studi di Trieste, Trieste, Italy

 


 

The FERMI@Elettra seeded Free Electron Laser (FEL) is based on two complementary FEL lines, FEL-1 and FEL-2. FEL-1 is a single stage cascaded FEL delivering light in the 80-20nm wavelength range, while FEL-2 is a double stage cascaded FEL where the additional stage should extend the frequency up-conversion to the spectral range of 20-4nm. The FEL-1 beam line is in operation since the end of 2010, with user experiments carried on in 2011 and 2012. During 2012 the commissioning of the FEL-2 beam line has started and the first observation of coherent light from the first stage of the cascade has been demonstrated. In the meanwhile the commissioning of a number of key components of FERMI, as the laser heater, the X-Band cavity for the longitudinal phase space linearization and the high energy RF deflector has been completed. The additional control on the longitudinal phase space and a progressive improvement in the machine optics optimization had a significant impact of FEL-1 performances, which has reached the expected specifications. In addition, emission of radiation at very high order conversion factors (up to 29th) has been observed and double stage cascades have been preliminarily tested with the observation of coherent radiation in the water window, up to the 65th harmonic of the seed laser, at about 4 nm.

 






Slides MOOB06 [6.633 MB]
            
 


 




