













FEL2012 - Table of Session: WEOC (THz and Long Wavelength FELs)


WEOC —  THz and Long Wavelength FELs   (29-Aug-12   14:00—15:30)



Paper
Title
Page



WEOC02
Status of the KAERI Table-Top THz Free-Electron Laser Development
 


 

Y.U. Jeong, S. Bae, B.H. Cha, B.A. Gudkov, K.H. Jang, K.N. Kim, K. Lee, S.V. Miginsky, J. Mun, S. H. Park, N. Vinokurov
                       KAERI, Daejon, Republic of Korea
S. Park
                       Kyungpook National University, Daegu, Republic of Korea

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by the World Class Institute (WCI) Program of the NRF funded by the MEST (NRF Grant Number: WCI 2011-001).
Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute is under development of a table-top terahertz (THz) free electron laser (FEL) driven by a conventional microtron accelerator. The THz FEL is composed of a compact variable-period helical undulator and a cylindrical-waveguide resonator with a mesh outcoupling mirror to achieve a small scale. The target wavelength and average power of the system are 400-600 um and 1 W. The energy and peak current of the microtron is designed to be 6.5 MeV and 1 A. We fabricated a compact microtron accelerator including a thermionic RF gun, a magnetron and a modulator having a maximum repetition rate of 200 Hz. We fabricated a variable-period helical undulator having tunable periods of 23-26 mm while keeping the on-axis field strength of 1 T, and total length of 700-800 mm. A compact beamline with two 45-degree bending magnets and 6 permanent-magnet quadrupoles has been designed to transport optimal electron beams to the variable-period helical undulator. A cylindrical-waveguide resonator having a mesh outcoupling mirror and a full mirror with the function of beam dump will decrease the size of the FEL. The size of the FEL is expected to be 2.3 m x 1.6 m.

 






Slides WEOC02 [6.856 MB]
            
 


 



WEOC03
The Novosibirsk Terahertz FEL Facility - Current Status and Future Prospects
361


 

O.A. Shevchenko, V.S. Arbuzov, K.N. Chernov, E.N. Dementyev, B.A. Dovzhenko, Ya.V. Getmanov, E.I. Gorniker, B.A. Knyazev, E.I. Kolobanov, A.A. Kondakov, V.R. Kozak, E.V. Kozyrev, V.V. Kubarev, G.N. Kulipanov, E.A. Kuper, I.V. Kuptsov, G.Y. Kurkin, L.E. Medvedev, L.A. Mironenko, V.K. Ovchar, B.Z. Persov, A.M. Pilan, V.M. Popik, V.V. Repkov, T.V. Salikova, M.A. Scheglov, I.K. Sedlyarov, G.V. Serdobintsev, S.S. Serednyakov, A.N. Skrinsky, S.V. Tararyshkin, V.G. Tcheskidov, N. Vinokurov, M.G. Vlasenko, P. Vobly, V. Volkov
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

The Novosibirsk terahertz FEL facility is based on the normal conducting CW energy recovery linac (ERL) with rather complicated lattice. This is the only multiorbit ERL in the world. It can operate in three different modes providing electron beam for three different FELs. The first FEL works for users since 2003. This FEL radiation is used by several groups of scientists which include biologists, chemists and physicists. Its maximum average and peak powers are 500 W and 1MW and wavelength can be tuned from 110 up to 240 microns. The high peak and average powers are used in experiments on material ablation and biological objects modification. The second FEL is installed on the second orbit. The first lasing of this FEL was achieved in 2009. Its radiation has almost the same average and peak powers and is delivered to the same user stations as the first FEL one, but its tunability range lies between 35 and 80 microns. The third FEL will be installed on the fourth orbit. In this paper we report the latest results obtained from the operating FELs as well as our progress with the commissioning of the two remaining ERL orbits. We also discuss possible options for the future upgrade.

 






Slides WEOC03 [5.364 MB]
            
 


 



WEOC04
Accelerator Beamline Performance for the IR FEL at the Fritz-Haber-Institut, Berlin
365


 

H. Bluem, D. Dowell, J.H. Park, A.M.M. Todd, L.M. Young
                       AES, Princeton, New Jersey, USA
S. Gewinner, W. Schöllkopf
                       FHI, Berlin, Germany
H. Loos
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

An electron accelerator and beamline for an IR and THz FEL with a design wavelength range from 4 to 500 μm has been commissioned by Advanced Energy Systems at the Fritz-Haber-Institut (FHI) in Berlin, Germany, for applications in, i.a., molecular and cluster spectroscopy as well as surface science. The linac comprises two S-band standing-wave copper structures and was designed to meet challenging specifications, including a final energy adjustable in the range of 15 to 50 MeV, low longitudinal emittance (<50 keV-psec) and transverse emittance (<20 μm), at more than 200 pC bunch charge with aμpulse repetition rate of 1 GHz. First lasing was achieved February 2012. Operational experience and measured electron beam performance will be presented.

 






Slides WEOC04 [12.785 MB]
            
 


 




