













FEL2013 - Table of Session: MOPPNO (FEL Prize Presentation)


MOPPNO —  FEL Prize Presentation   (26-Aug-13   09:15—10:30)
Chair: V. Litvinenko, BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA


Paper
Title
Page



MOPPNO01
The Linac Coherent Light Source - Plans and Options for Future Development
 


 

J.N. Galayda
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by U.S. Department of Energy, Ofﬁce of Basic En- ergy Sciences, under Contract DE-AC02-76SF00515
The Linac Coherent Light Source was designed from the outset to provide options for expansion. The LCLS-II Project will implement one of these options, the addition of a new undulator tunnel, two new x-ray sources (250-2,000 eV and 2,000-13,000 eV) and new experiment hall. This expansion will provide increased capacity, enabling the LCLS to offer an ever-growing repertoire of operating configurations. As the LCLS-II Project progresses, the LCLS facility is rapidly expanding the capabilities of its x-ray source in spectral range, brightness and temporal control. SLAC is simultaneously developing options for performance enhancements (improved energy stability, higher energy, higher repetition rate) to further develop the scientific reach of the faclity.

 






Slides MOPPNO01 [24.333 MB]
        
 


 



MOPPNO02
Shot Noise Suppression in Linac Beams
 


 

D.F. Ratner
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Shot noise in an electron beam can affect the performance of FELs by driving instabilities (e.g., the microbunching instability) or by competing with seeded density modulations. However, it is possible to manipulate, and even suppress, the shot noise level to enhance beam performance [1-2]. This talk will present an analytical framework for one approach to noise suppression, using dispersive regions to tune the beam below the shot noise level [3]. Experimental observations of noise suppression will be shown [4-5], along with prospects for future studies and applications.

 






Slides MOPPNO02 [4.645 MB]
        
 


 




