













FEL2013 - Table of Session: THIBNO (Short Wavelength)


THIBNO —  Short Wavelength   (29-Aug-13   11:00—12:00)
Chair: H.-H. Braun, CERN, Geneva, Switzerland


Paper
Title
Page



THIBNO01
Methods for Achieving Spectral Purity in SASE FELs
 


 

J. Wu
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Pushed forward by the advent of external seeding FELs, SASE FEL facilities are searching new techniques for achieve comparable spectral purity, while taking advantage of the relatively simpler SASE hardware configuration. A review of the most interesting techniques for cleaning the SASE spectrum is given.

 






Slides THIBNO01 [3.284 MB]
        
 


 



THIBNO02
Demonstration Of Two-color XFEL Operation and Autocorrelation Measurement at SACLA
 


 

T. Hara, Y. Inubushi, T. Ishikawa, H. Tanaka, T. Tanaka, K. Togawa, M. Yabashi
                       RIKEN SPring-8 Center, Sayo-cho, Sayo-gun, Hyogo, Japan
T. Katayama, T. Togashi, K. Tono
                       JASRI/SPring-8, Hyogo, Japan
T. Sato
                       The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan

 


 

Recently two-color XFEL operation with a relative wavelength separation of 30 % has been achieved at SACLA in hard x-rays. In the two-color operation at SACLA, a simple and lucid scheme is employed, namely the first and second halves of the undulators are set at different K values. To make a time delay between the two-color photon pulses, a magnetic chicane is installed between the two undulator sections to detour the electron beam. Since the two-color pulses are emitted from the same electron bunch, there is no time jitter and the delay can be finely adjusted up to 40 fs. Two wavelengths can be freely selected in hard x-rays. The photon pulse length of the single-color operation measured by an autocorrelation technique is less than 10 fs (FWHM). The two-color operation of SACLA, which provides femtoseconds-short pulses with a GW-level peak power, is an ideal light source for x-ray pump x-ray probe experiments.

 






Slides THIBNO02 [1.988 MB]
        
 


 




