













FEL2013 - Table of Session: THOCNO (Applications)


THOCNO —  Applications   (29-Aug-13   14:30—15:30)
Chair: I. Lindau, MAX-lab, Lund, Sweden


Paper
Title
Page



THOCNO01
The Perspective and Application of Extreme UV FEL at Dalian
 


 

W.Q. Zhang, D.X. Dai, Q. Guo, G.R. Wu, C.L. Xiao, X.M. Yang
                       DICP, Dalian, People's Republic of China
D. Wang, Z.T. Zhao
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: Supported by the National Science Foundation of China. The contract No. is 21127902
Free electron laser, as the fourth generation of light source, has been developed for decades, the higher power, ultrafast pulse in femtosecond scale, better spectral resolution were achieved. It has been approved a powerful tool in the scientific researches, perfect complement of tabletop laser system and synchrotron light source. FEL in EUV range, especially around 100nm, is very helpful to investigate the chemical reactions in the basic energy research, because the small molecule or radical, related to combustion, can be ionized and detected efficiently and sensitively by intense EUV beam with one photon. A new project to generate EUV beam from 50 to 150 nm at Dalian, Dalian Coherent Light Source (DLCS), was advocated by Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics & Shanghai Institute of Applied Physics. The coherent optical beam with more than 100uJ per pulse will be achieved with high gain harmonic generation1 and well controlled in femtosecond time scale2. User experimental stations in the studies of molecular beams and surface dynamics will also be built at the same time. A conceptual design of DLCS and related research plans will be present at the conference.
1.Yu L, Babzien M, Ben-Zvi I, DiMauro L, Doyuran A, et al. Science 289, 932(2000) 2.Conceptual Design Report of “An Extreme-UV Coherent Light Source at Dalian”(2012)

 






Slides THOCNO01 [5.374 MB]
        
 


 



THOCNO02
A Proposed High FLUX Ultrashort Pulse X-ray and Gamma-ray Source at JLAB FEL Facility
 


 

S. Zhang, S.V. Benson, D. Douglas
                       JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA

 


 

Funding: This project was supported by the Commonwealth of Virginia, and by the U.S. DOE Basic Energy Sciences under contract No. DE-AC05-060R23177.
A unique opportunity exists at Jlab FEL Facility to dramatically expand its present operating wavebands into high flux X-ray and Gamma-ray regimes based on Laser Compton Scattering (LCS) process by using the world’s only operating high average power ultrashort pulse FEL and high current ERL machine in existence. The proposed project takes the advantage of our expertise acquired from the previous R&D on high-power lasers and high current ERL accelerator to design an advanced source with photon energy ranging from 10s of eV (soft X-ray) up to MeV (Gamma-ray) and high photon flux on the level of 1010~1013 photons/second. We will show the feasibility study for achieving the expected parameters under the existing machine conditions, and will investigate the possibility to further extend the photon energy and flux with practical machine upgrades and modifications. With such an addition to JLab FEL facility, its photon capability of the JLab FEL facility would cover the broadest spectrum ever, providing ultrashort optical pulses from Gamma to THz for various users. The potential benefits of source go well beyond the research interests of nuclear physics and accelerator technology.
Notice: Authored by JSA, LLC under U.S. DOE ContractNo. DE-AC05-060R23177. The U.S. Government retains non-exclusive, paid-up, irrevocable, world-wide license to publish/reproduce this manuscript.

 


 



THOCNO03
The Potential Uses of X-ray FELs in Nuclear Studies
749


 

W.-T. Liao, C.H. Keitel, A. Pálffy
                       MPI-K, Heidelberg, Germany

 


 

X-ray FELs have the potential to allow the study of electronic-nuclear and nuclear dynamics. Observation of such interactions, and the possibility of controling them, offers the prospect of a great leap in science capability. Discussions of the possibilities are reatively recent and both FEL scientists and the potential users could benefit greatly via direct interaction at the conference.

 






Slides THOCNO03 [8.591 MB]
        
 


 



THOCNO04
Jitter-free Time Resolved Resonant CDI Experiments Using Two-color FEL Pulses Generated by the Same Electron Bunch
753


 

M. Zangrando, E. Allaria, F. Bencivenga, F. Capotondi, D. Castronovo, P. Cinquegrana, M.B. Danailov, G. De Ninno, A.A. Demidovich, S. Di Mitri, B. Diviacco, W.M. Fawley, E. Ferrari, L. Fröhlich, L. Giannessi, R. Ivanov, M. Kiskinova, B. Mahieu, N. Mahne, C. Masciovecchio, I. Nikolov, E. Pedersoli, G. Penco, L. Raimondi, C. Serpico, P. Sigalotti, S. Spampinati, C. Spezzani, C. Svetina, M. Trovò
                       Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A., Basovizza, Italy
G. De Ninno, D. Gauthier
                       University of Nova Gorica, Nova Gorica, Slovenia
D. Fausti
                       Università degli Studi di Trieste, Trieste, Italy
L. Giannessi
                       ENEA C.R. Frascati, Frascati (Roma), Italy
M. Zangrando
                       IOM-CNR, Trieste, Italy

 


 

The generation of two-color FEL pulses by the same electron bunch at FERMI-FEL has opened unprecedented opportunity for jitter-free FEL pump-FEL probe time resolved coherent diffraction imaging (CDI) experiments in order to access spatial aspects in dynamic processes. This possibility was first explored in proof-of-principle resonant CDI experiments using specially designed sample consisting of Ti grating. The measurements performed tuning the energies of the FEL pulses to the Ti M-absorption edge clearly demonstrated the time dependence of Ti optical constants while varying the FEL-pump intensity and probe time delay. The next planned CDI experiments in 2013 will explore transient states in multicomponent nanostructures and magnetic systems, using the controlled linear or circular polarization of the two-color FEL pulses with temporal resolution in the fs to ps range.

 






Slides THOCNO04 [8.778 MB]
        
 


 




