













HB2014 - Table of Session: WEO3LR (Working Group B)


WEO3LR —  Working Group B   (12-Nov-14   13:50—15:50)
Chair: I. Hofmann, GSI, Darmstadt, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



WEO3LR01
Beam Setup Conditions and Comparison of Deal and Actual Production Conditions
 


 

M.A. Plum, A.P. Shishlo
                       ORNL, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA

 


 

Funding: ORNL/SNS is managed by UT-Battelle, LLC, for the U.S. Department of Energy under contract DE-AC05-00OR22725.
This presentation will review methods for experimental determination of optimal operational set points in a multi-cavity superconducting high power hadron linac. A typical tuning process, including establishing correct acceleration profile and rms bunch size matching, is based on comparisons between measured data and results of simulations from envelope, single and multi-particle models. Presence of significant space charge effects requires simulation and measurement of bunch dynamics in three dimensions to ensure low loss beam transport. This is especially difficult in a superconducting linac where the use of interceptive beam diagnostics is usually restricted because of the risk of SRF cavity surface contamination. The procedures discussed here are based on non-interceptive diagnostics such as beam position monitors and laser wires, and conventional diagnostics devices such as wire scanners and bunch shape monitors installed outside the superconducting linac. The longitudinal Twiss analysis based on the BPM signals will be described. The superconducting SNS linac tuning experience will be used to demonstrate problems and their solution for real world linac tune-up procedures.

 






Slides WEO3LR01 [7.162 MB]
        
 


 



WEO3LR03
Nonlinear Optimization in High Intensity Superconducting Linac Lattice of CADS
 


 

Z.J. Wang, Y. He, S.H. Liu
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China

 


 

With the development of high-energy, high intensity ion linac all over the world, the optimization design of accelerating lattice has become a concern. The China Accelerator Driven System(ADS) superconducting proton linac is used as an example to illustrate the strategies and techniques which we have been developed for the optimization design of ion linac. First, an novel idea, which optimizes the periodic phase advance array directly in both longitudinal and transverse direction, is proposed to design the superconducting acceleration section. The results shown that the new idea can make the lattice design of ion linac easily accord with physics rules. Second, the Particle Swarm Optimiation(PSO) algorithm is utilized to optimize the phase advance array setting automatically. The advantage of utilization of optimiation algorithm is that it can find potential solutions that cannot be found by hand. Addtionally, Multi-goal Optimization technique is used to study the nonlinear properties of lattice. The strategies and techniques are generally-used and can be adopted in the other ion linacs design.

 


 



WEO3LR04
Emittance Transfer in Linacs
289


 

L. Groening, M.T. Maier, C. Xiao
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
O.K. Kester
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany

 


 

Flat beams feature unequal emittances in the horizontal and vertical phase space. Such beams were created successfully in electron machines by applying effective stand-alone solenoid fringe fields in the electron gun. This contribution is an extension of the method to ion beams and on the decoupling capabilities of such a round-to-flat adaptor. The beam line provides a single-knob tool to partition the horizontal and vertical rms emittances, while keeping the product of the two emittances constant as well as the transverse rms Twiss parameters (betax;y and alphax;y) in both planes. This single knob is the solenoid field strength. The successful commissioning of the set-up with beam will be presented as well.

 






Slides WEO3LR04 [1.289 MB]
        
 


 




