













HB2018 - Table of Session: WEA1WB (WG-B)


WEA1WB —  WG-B   (20-Jun-18   09:30—10:30)
Chair: H.W. Zhao, IMP/CAS, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China


Paper
Title
Page



WEA1WB01
Beam Dynamics and Beam Commissioning of 10 MeV CW Proton Superconducting Linac Based on Spoke Cavities
 


 

F. Yan, D.J. Gong, W. Yao
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

For high intensity CW beam, beam loading effect is a major issue for the stability operation of the linac. The steady state and transient perturbations of the accelerating voltage by the beam current causes significant differences between the design lattice to the actual operated parameters for the SC cavities. The errors accumulated along the linac, lead to undesirable beam behaviour, and cause beam losses finally. In this paper the beam loading effects of the SC cavities for Injector-I have been analyzed for 10 mA proton beam and presented.

 






Slides WEA1WB01 [5.830 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



WEA1WB02
Characterization of High Intensity Beams in Linacs
 


 

P.A.P. Nghiem, N. Chauvin
                       CEA/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
L. Ducrot
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France
W. Simeoni
                       IF-UFRGS, Porto Alegre, Brazil
D. Uriot
                       IRFU, CEA, University Paris-Saclay, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
M. Valette
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

For high intensity linacs, beam particle distributions are in most cases far from Gaussian ones. Furthermore, the distribution shapes drastically differ from a linac to another and significantly change along a given linac. For those reasons, classical RMS parameters like beam envelope or emittance are no longer enough for characterizing the beam as soon as comparison or evolution of beam quality is in view. This paper presents three alternative ways to characterize more suitably a high intensity beam: 6D coordinates of the actual number of particles, projections of the distribution onto a few axes, RMS parameters of the core and of the halo separately. The advantages and drawbacks of each method are then discussed in terms of beam representativeness, data weight and physics insight.

 






Slides WEA1WB02 [17.204 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




