













HB2012 - Table of Session: WEO3B (Working Group-B)


WEO3B —  Working Group-B   (19-Sep-12   10:50—12:30)
Chair: P.A.P. Nghiem, CEA/DSM/IRFU, France


Paper
Title
Page



WEO3B01
FRIB Accelerator Beam Dynamics Design and Challenges
404


 

Q. Zhao, A. Facco, F. Marti, E. Pozdeyev, M.J. Syphers, J. Wei, X. Wu, Y. Yamazaki, Y. Zhang
                       FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA

 


 

Funding: This material is based upon work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science under Cooperative Agreement DE-SC0000661.
The Facility for Rare Isotope Beams (FRIB) will be a new national user facility for nuclear science. This cw, high power, superconducting (SC), heavy ion driver linac consists of a frontend to provide various highly charged ions at 0.5 MeV/u, three SC acceleration segments connected by two 180° bending systems to achieve an output beam energy of ≥200 MeV/u for all varieties of stable ions, and a beam delivery system to transport multi-charge-state beams to a fragmentation target at beam power of up to 400 kW. The linac utilizes four types of low-beta resonators with one frequency transition from 80.5 to 322 MHz after Segment 1, where ion charge state(s) is boosted through a stripper at ≤20 MeV/u. The beam dynamics design challenges include simultaneous acceleration of multi-charge-state beams to meet beam-on-target requirements, efficient acceleration of high intensity, low energy heavy ion beams, limitation of uncontrolled beam loss to <1 W/m, accommodation of multiple charge stripping scenarios, etc. We present the recent optimizations on linac lattice, the results of end-to-end beam simulations with machine errors, and the simulation of beam tuning and fault conditions.

 






Slides WEO3B01 [7.899 MB]
            
 


 



WEO3B02
Acceleration and Transportation of Multiple Ion Species at Ebis-based Preinjector
409


 

D. Raparia
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

A new heavy ion pre-injector at Brookhaven National Laboratory consist of an electron Beam Ion Source (EBIS), RFQ and IH Linac and a short transport line. This pre-injector provide any ion Helium to Uranium at energy of 2 MeV/u for Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider (RHIC) and the NASA Space Radiation Laboratory (NSRL). EBIS produces multiple charge states of an ion of interested. These charge states are accelerated through RFQ (300 keV/u) and IH Linac (2 MeV/u) and transported to booster. Charge desecration occurs just before the injection into the booster. This paper discusses implication of acceleration and transports of multiple charge state ions.

 






Slides WEO3B02 [5.825 MB]
            
 


 



WEO3B03
PXIE at FNAL
414


 

N. Solyak, C.M. Baffes, A.Z. Chen, Y.I. Eidelman, B.M. Hanna, S.D. Holmes, V.A. Lebedev, S. Nagaitsev, J.-F. Ostiguy, R.J. Pasquinelli, D.W. Peterson, L.R. Prost, G.W. Saewert, A. Saini, V.E. Scarpine, A.V. Shemyakin, D. Sun, V.P. Yakovlev
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

PXIE is the integrated systems test for the Project X frontend. It is expected to accelerate 1-2 mA CW beam up to 30 MeV. The major goal of the project is a validation of the Project X concept and elimination of technical risks. It is expected to be constructed in the period of 2012-2016. In presentation the conceptual design of the experimental test facility, lattice and beam dynamics studies will be discussed in details.

 






Slides WEO3B03 [4.561 MB]
            
 


 



WEO3B04
RFQ Beam Dynamics Design for Large Science Facilities and Accelerator-Driven Systems
419


 

C. Zhang
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany

 


 

Serving as the front-end of large science facilities and Accelerator-Driven Systems (ADS), the Radio-Frequency Quadrupole (RFQ) accelerator usually needs to reach low beam losses, good beam quality, high reliability, and cost savings such design goals at high beam intensities. To address the challenges for modern RFQs, a special beam dynamics design technique characterized by a reasonable and efficient bunching process with balanced space-charge forces has been developed as an alternative to the classic Four-Section Procedure proposed by Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL). In this paper, the design studies of some recent RFQ projects will be presented as examples.

 






Slides WEO3B04 [3.698 MB]
            
 


 



WEO3B05
Using Step-Like Nonlinear Magnets for Beam Uniformization at IFMIF Target
424


 

Z. Yang, J.Y. Tang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China
N. Chauvin, P.A.P. Nghiem
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France

 


 

Uniform beam distribution and minimum beam halo on target are often required in high intensity beam applications to prolong the target lifetime, ease cooling and obtain better irradiation effect. In this report, step-like nonlinear magnets instead of standard multipole magnets have been studied for the application at IFMIF. Although the preliminary results are still below the very critical requirement of spot uniformity at the IFMIF target, they are quite permissive. The method demonstrates significant advantages over the conventional combination of octupole and duodecapole on very low beam loss, better uniformity and very low cost. Further studies are needed to fully meet the IFMIF specifications.

 






Slides WEO3B05 [1.487 MB]
            
 


 




