













HB2012 - Table of Session: TUO3C (Working Group-D)


TUO3C —  Working Group-D   (18-Sep-12   14:00—16:30)
Chair: Y. Sato, KEK, Tsukuba, Japan


Paper
Title
Page



TUO3C01
Beam Losses at LHC and its Injector
 


 

L. Ponce
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

After two years of operation pushing the beam parameters (number of bunches, bunch peak intensity, emittances, β*), we gained substantial experience on the different beam loss mechanisms observed in the LHC all along the beam cycle. Some of these mechanisms were expected like beam losses during injection process and from the collisions. Other mechanisms have been discovered with the higher intensities like beam losses due to UFOs and beam instabilities. Mitigations actions had to be put in place to allow efficient operation. This talk will address the different types of losses (operational beam losses, equipment failure and transient beam losses) as seen in the LHC and in the beam transfer from SPS to LHC.

 






Slides TUO3C01 [4.985 MB]
            
 


 



TUO3C02
FNAL Proton Source High Intensity Operations and Beam Loss Control
320


 

F.G.G. Garcia, W. Pellico
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: U.S. Department of Energy
The Proton Source (PS) has been the workhorse of the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory (FNAL) for over 40 years. During that time the United States High Energy Physics program has continued to change with increasing demands put on the PS. The past 10 years saw an increase of over 10 fold in required hourly flux for the PS and plans are now underway to have the capability to double the output with continued operations until at least 2025. To meet these goals, effort in area of beam loss control has been a major part of the upgrades. Beam collimation and absorption systems as well as diagnostics used to mitigate and control losses have been implemented. The recent implementation of new correctors for orbit and higher harmonic control has also been very beneficial. A summary of recent and planned modification to these PS systems will be discussed.

 






Slides TUO3C02 [16.766 MB]
            
 


 



TUO3C03
Characterizing and Controlling Beam Losses at the LANSCE Facility
324


 

L. Rybarcyk
                       LANL, Los Alamos, New Mexico, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by DOE under contract DE-AC52-06NA25396.
The Los Alamos Neutron Science Center (LANSCE) currently provides 100-MeV H+ and 800-MeV H− beams to several user facilities that have distinct beam requirements, e.g. intensity, micropulse pattern, duty factor, etc.. Minimizing beam loss is critical to achieving good performance and reliable operation, but can be challenging in the context of simultaneous multi-beam delivery. This presentation will discuss various aspects related to the observation, characterization and minimization of beam loss associated with normal production beam operations.

 






Slides TUO3C03 [3.534 MB]
            
 


 



TUO3C04
Beam Loss Mitigation in the Oak Ridge Spallation Neutron Source
329


 

M.A. Plum
                       ORNL, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA

 


 

Funding: ORNL/SNS is managed by UT-Battelle, LLC, for the U.S. Department of Energy under contract DE-AC05-00OR22725.
The Oak Ridge Spallation Neutron Source (SNS) accelerator complex routinely delivers 1 MW of beam power to the spallation target. Due to this high beam power, understanding and minimizing the beam loss is an ongoing focus area of the accelerator physics program. In some areas of the accelerator facility the equipment parameters corresponding to the minimum loss are very different from the design parameters. In this presentation we will summarize the SNS beam loss measurements, the methods used to minimize the beam loss, and a compare the design vs. the loss-minimized equipment parameters.

 






Slides TUO3C04 [4.617 MB]
            
 


 



TUO3C05
Beam Commissioning Plan for CSNS Accelerators
334


 

S. Wang, S. Fu, H.F. Ouyang, J. Peng
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: Supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (11175193)
The China Spallation Neutron Source (CSNS) is now under construction, and the beam commissioning of ion source will start from the end of 2013, and will last several years for whole accelerator. The commissioning plan for CSNS accelerators will be presented in the presentation, including the commissioning correlated parameters, the goal at different commissioning stages and some key commissioning procedures for each part of accelerators. The detailed schedule for commissioning will be also given.

 






Slides TUO3C05 [3.574 MB]
            
 


 



TUO3C06
The Result of Beam Commissioning in J-PARC 3-GeV RCS
339


 

H. Harada, N. Hayashi, H. Hotchi, M. Kinsho, P.K. Saha, Y. Shobuda, F. Tamura, K. Yamamoto, M. Yamamoto, M. Yoshimoto
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-Mura, Naka-Gun, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan
Y. Irie, T. Koseki, Y. Sato, K. Satou, M.J. Shirakata
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
S. Kato
                       Tohoku University, Graduate School of Science, Sendai, Japan

 


 

J-PARC 3-GeV RCS has started the beam commissioning since Oct. 2007. In the beam commissioning, the beam tuning for basic parameters and high-intensity operation has been continuously performed. This presentation will describe the results of the beam-loss reduction and minimization for high-intensity operation.

 






Slides TUO3C06 [7.753 MB]
            
 


 




