













HB2014 - Table of Session: WEO2AB (Working Group F)


WEO2AB —  Working Group F   (12-Nov-14   10:50—12:30)
Chair: M.G. Minty, BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA


Paper
Title
Page



WEO2AB01
Instrumentation Design and Challenges at FRIB
267


 

S.M. Lidia
                       FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA

 


 

Funding: This material is based upon work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science under Cooperative Agreement DE-SC000061, the State of Michigan and Michigan State University.
The Facility for Rare Isotope Beams (FRIB) requires a drive linac to produce ion species from protons to uranium which will extend the heavy ion high intensity frontier. The unique design of the twice-folded linac coupled with the functional dynamic range of beam intensities over more than 5 orders of magnitude present new challenges to beam detection and measurement, instrumentation, and machine protection systems. Additional challenges to longitudinal tuning and transverse orbit optimization of multi-charge state beams drive the design of measurement systems and techniques in the low energy linac and dispersive arc regions. Finally, beam loss monitoring and detection systems must respond within 10 microseconds to prevent catastrophic damage to beamline components from high power, heavy ion beams. We present an overview of beam diagnostic systems and detection networks that enable tuning of FRIB over the operating intensity range, while ensuring adequate machine protection. Comparisons to other proposed and existing hadron facilities will be made.

 






Slides WEO2AB01 [5.229 MB]
        
 


 



WEO2AB02
Beam Loss Mechanisms, Measurements and Simulations at the LHC (Quench Tests)
273


 

M. Sapinski
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Monitoring and minimization of beam losses is increasingly important for high-intensity and superconducting machines. In the case of the LHC, the collimation system is designed to absorb the energy of lost particles and confine the main multi-turn losses to regions without sensitive equipment. However many loss mechanisms produce local loss events which can be located elsewhere in the machine. A beam loss monitoring system, covering the whole machine circumference is therefore essential, and is used for both machine protection and diagnostics. In order to fully understand the measured signals and set-up the beam abort thresholds, extensive simulation work is required, covering particle tracking in the accelerator and the generation of the particle showers created by the lost particles. In order to benchmark these simulations and verify beam-abort thresholds, special tests have been performed where beam losses are provoked in a controlled manner over a wide range of durations. This work summarizes the experience in understanding beam losses in the LHC during Run 1.

 






Slides WEO2AB02 [4.364 MB]
        
 


 



WEO2AB03
Beam Instrumentation at the 1 MW Proton Beam of J-PARC RCS
278


 

K. Yamamoto, H. Harada, S. Hatakeyama, N. Hayashi, H. Hotchi, K. Okabe, P.K. Saha, M. Yoshimoto
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-Mura, Naka-Gun, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan
Y. Hashimoto, T. Toyama
                       J-PARC, KEK & JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan

 


 

Rapid Cycling Synchrotron(RCS) of Japan Proton Accelerator Complex(J-PARC) is providing more than 300 kW of proton beam to Material and Life science Facility(MLF) and Main Ring(MR). Last summer shutdown, a new ion source was installed to increase output power to 1 MW. In order to achieve reliable operation of 1 MW, we need to reduce beam loss as well. Beam quality of such higher output power is also important for users. We present beam monitor systems for these purposes.

 






Slides WEO2AB03 [3.242 MB]
        
 


 



WEO2AB04
Beam Diagnostic Challenges for High Energy Hadron Colliders
283


 

E.B. Holzer
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Two high energy hadron colliders are currently in the operational phase of their life-cycle, RHIC and LHC. A major upgrade of the LHC, HL-LHC, planned for 2023 aims at accumulating ten times the design integrated luminosity by 2035. Still further in the future, studies of SppC and FCC are investigating machines with a center-of-mass energy of up to 100 TeV and up to 100 km circumference. The existing machines pose considerable diagnostic challenges, which will become even more critical with any increase in size and energy. Cryogenic environments lead to additional difficulties for diagnostics and further limit the applicability of intercepting devices, making non-invasive profile and halo measurements essential. The sheer size of these colliders requires the use of radiation tolerant read-out electronics in the tunnel and low noise, low loss signal transmission. It also implies a very large number of beam position and loss monitors, all of which have to be highly reliable. To fully understand the machine and tackle beam instabilities bunch-by-bunch measurements become increasingly important for all diagnostic systems. This contribution discusses current developments in the field.

 






Slides WEO2AB04 [10.201 MB]
        
 


 




