













HB2012 - Table of Session: THO1C (Working Group-D)


THO1C —  Working Group-D   (20-Sep-12   14:00—16:30)
Chair: M.A. Plum, LANL, Los Alamos, New Mexico, USA


Paper
Title
Page



THO1C01
High Intensity Operation and Control of Beam Losses in a Cyclotron Based Accelerator
555


 

M. Seidel, J. Grillenberger, A.C. Mezger
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

This presentation discusses aspects of high intensity operation in PSI's cyclotron based proton accelerator (HIPA). Major beam loss mechanisms and tuning methods to minimize losses are presented. Concept and optimization of low loss beam extraction from a cyclotron are described. Collimators are used to localize beam losses and activation. Activation levels of accelerator components are shown. An overview on instrumentation for loss monitoring and prevention of failure situations is given. Other relevant aspects include the beam trip statistics and grid to beam power conversion efficiency.

 






Slides THO1C01 [3.642 MB]
            
 


 



THO1C02
Beam Loss Control in the ISIS Accelerator Facility
560


 

D.J. Adams, B. Jones, A.H. Kershaw, S.J. Payne, B.G. Pine, H. V. Smith, C.M. Warsop, R.E. Williamson, M. Wright
                       STFC/RAL/ISIS, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom

 


 

The ISIS spallation neutron and muon source has been in operation since 1984. The accelerator complex consists of an H− ion source, RFQ, 70 MeV linac, 800 MeV proton synchrotron and associated beam lines. The facility currently delivers ~2.8·1013 protons per pulse at 50 Hz, splitting the pulses 40/10 between two neutron target stations. High intensity performance and operation are dominated by the need to control beam loss, which is key to sustainable machine operation and hands on maintenance. Beam loss measurement systems on ISIS are described, along with typical operational levels. The dominant beam loss in the facility occurs in the synchrotron due to high intensity effects during the H− injection and longitudinal trapping processes. These losses are localised in a single superperiod using a beam collector system. Emittance growth during acceleration also drives extraction and beam transport loss at 800 MeV. Measurements, simulation and correction systems for these processes are discussed, as are the implications for further intensity upgrades.

 






Slides THO1C02 [4.759 MB]
            
 


 



THO1C03
Collimation Experience at the LHC
 


 

S. Redaelli
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The collimation system of the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) consists of 100 movable collimators that are used in all machine phases, from injection to collisions. A multi-stage cleaning protects the machine against regular and abnormal betatron and momentum beam losses. The system has also a crucial role in the passive machine protection and in the luminosity performance in terms of β* reach, limited by triplet magnet aperture constraints. The system provided record cleaning inefficiencies in cold magnets below a few 0.0001 and enabled ooperating at β* of 60 cm with total stored energies up to 130 MJ at 4 TeV. The collimation experience at the LHC and the achieved system performance are reviewed.

 






Slides THO1C03 [4.844 MB]
            
 


 



THO1C04
Performances and Future Plans of the LHC RF
565


 

P. Baudrenghien, T. Mastoridis
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The ramp-up of the LHC operation has been exceptionally fast: from the first acceleration of a single bunch at nominal intensity (1.1· E11 p) to 3.5 TeV/c on May 2010, to the accumulation of 11 fb-1 integrated luminosity two years later (June 2012). On the RF side this was made possible by a few key design choices and several developments, that allow reliable LHC operation with 0.35 A DC beam at 4 TeV/c (1380 bunches at 50 ns spacing, 1.5·1011 p per bunch). This paper reviews the RF design and presents its performance. Plans are also outlined that would allow operation with 25 ns bunch spacing (doubling the beam current) and even increased bunch intensity with the target of above 1A DC current per beam, without big modification to the existing RF power system.

 






Slides THO1C04 [9.945 MB]
            
 


 



THO1C05
Status and Beam Commissioning Plan of PEFP 100 MeV Proton Linac
570


 

J.-H. Jang, S. Cha, Y.-S. Cho, D.I. Kim, H.S. Kim, H.-J. Kwon, Y.M. Li, B.-S. Park, J.Y. Ryu, K.T. Seol, Y.-G. Song, S.P. Yun
                       KAERI, Daejon, Republic of Korea

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by Ministry of Education, Science and Technology of the Korean government.
The proton engineering frontier project (PEFP) is developing a 100 MeV proton linac which consists of a 50 keV injector, a 3 MeV RFQ (radio frequency quadrupole), and a 100 MeV DTL (drift tube linac). The installation of the linac was finished on March this year. The other elements including the high power RF components will be installed after completing the other part of the accelerator building. The beam commissioning is scheduled at the end of this year. This work summarized the status of the PEFP linac development and the beam commissioning plan.

 






Slides THO1C05 [5.104 MB]
            
 


 



THO1C06
Recent Commissioning of High-intensity Proton Beams in J-PARC Main Ring
575


 

Y. Sato, K. Hara, Y. Hashimoto, Y. Hori, S. Igarashi, K. Ishii, N. Kamikubota, T. Koseki, Y. Kurimoto, K. Niki, K. Ohmi, C. Ohmori, M. Okada, M. Shimamoto, M.J. Shirakata, T. Sugimoto, J. Takano, M. Tejima, T. Toyama, M. Uota, S. Yamada, N. Yamamoto, M. Yoshii
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
S. Hatakeyama, H. Hotchi, F. Tamura
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-mura, Japan
S. Nakamura, K. Satou
                       J-PARC, KEK & JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan

 


 

J-PARC main ring (MR) provides high power proton beams of 200 kW to the neutrino experiment. Beam losses were well managed within capacity of collimation system. Since this beam power was achieved by shortening the repetition rate, following tunings had been applied in order to reduce the beam losses, such as improvement of tune flatness, chromaticity correction, upgrades of injection kickers, dynamic bunch-by-bunch feed-back to suppress transverse oscillation, beam loading compensation using feed-forward technique, and balancing the collimators of MR and the injection beam transport line. The dynamic bunch-by-bunch feed-back was effective to reduce the beam losses to one-tenth during injection and beginning of acceleration. With the beam loading compensation, impedance seen by the beam was significantly reduced, longitudinal oscillations were damped, and the beam power was increased over 5% without increasing the beam losses. Monitors were upgraded to find time structure and location of the beam losses, even in first several turns after each injection. In this presentation these commissioning procedures and beam dynamics simulations are shown, and our upgrade plan is discussed.

 






Slides THO1C06 [2.193 MB]
            
 


 




