













HB2014 - Table of Session: MOXLR (Invited Plenary - Session 1)


MOXLR —  Invited Plenary - Session 1   (10-Nov-14   08:55—10:25)
Chair: Y. Yamazaki, FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA


Paper
Title
Page



MOXLR01
The High Luminosity Challenge: Potential and Limitations of High-Intensity High-Brightness Beams in the LHC and its Injectors
1


 

R. De Maria, G. Arduini, D. Banfi, J. Barranco, H. Bartosik, E. Benedetto, R. Bruce, O.S. Brüning, R. Calaga, F. Cerutti, H. Damerau, L.S. Esposito, S.D. Fartoukh, M. Fitterer, R. Garoby, S.S. Gilardoni, M. Giovannozzi, B. Goddard, B. Gorini, K. Hanke, G. Iadarola, M. Lamont, M. Meddahi, B. Mikulec, N. Mounet, E. Métral, Y. Papaphilippou, T. Pieloni, S. Redaelli, L. Rossi, G. Rumolo, E.N. Shaposhnikova, G. Sterbini, E. Todesco, R. Tomás, F. Zimmermann
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
A. Valishev
                       Fermilab, Batavia, Illinois, USA

 


 

Funding: Research supported by EU FP7 HiLumi LHC - Grant Agreement 284404 and by DOE via the US-LARP program.
High-intensity and high-brightness beams are key ingredients to maximize the integrated luminosity of the LHC and exploit its full potential. This contribution will describe the optimization of the beam and machine parameters to maximize the integrated luminosity for the LHC experiments, by taking into account the expected intensity and brightness reach of the LHC and its injector chain and the capabilities of the detectors for the next run and foreseen upgrade scenarios.

 






Slides MOXLR01 [2.574 MB]
        
 


 



MOXLR02
Lessons from 1-MW Proton RCS Beam Tuning
6


 

H. Hotchi
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-Mura, Naka-Gun, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan

 


 

The J-PARC 3 GeV Rapid Cycling Synchrotron (RCS) is the world's highest class of high-power pulsed proton driver aiming at 1 MW output beam power. In the last summer shutdown of 2013, the injection energy from the linac was upgraded from 181 MeV to the design value of 400 MeV. In addition, in this summer shutdown of 2014, the maximum peak current of the injection beam will be increased from 30 mA to the design value of 50 mA. In October 2014 after completing these series of linac upgrades, we are to start the final stage of beam tuning toward the design output beam power of 1 MW. The most important issues in realizing such a high power 1 MW beam operation are control and minimization of beam loss. This talk will present 1 MW beam tuning results with particular emphasis on our approach to beam loss issues.

 






Slides MOXLR02 [3.715 MB]
        
 


 



MOXLR03
High Intensity Frontier Proton Accelerators
 


 

S. Henderson
                       ANL, Argonne, Ilinois, USA

 


 

High-intensity proton accelerators are vital tools for basic science, including nuclear physics, particle physics and materials science. The development of hadron beam technology and the demand for beams of ever-increasing intensity and power is driven not only by the needs of basic science, but increasingly also by the application of hadron beams in areas beyond basic science. Tomorrow’s high power hadron accelerators will be applied for the development of new materials for fission and fusion reactors, for exploring and perhaps generating electrical power from fusion energy, and for helping to solve problems in the nuclear fuel cycle. Achieving the extremely demanding beam intensities and beam powers of tomorrow’s frontier proton accelerators requires extending the state-of-the-art in accelerator technology and in our understanding of the fundamental physics of beams. The landscape of high intensity proton accelerators in the past, present and future will be described, and the technological and accelerator physics challenges that must be met will be summarized.

 






Slides MOXLR03 [7.012 MB]
        
 


 




