













HB2012 - Table of Session: MOI1B (Invited Plenary - Session B)


MOI1B —  Invited Plenary - Session B   (17-Sep-12   10:50—12:35)
Chair: W.-T. Weng, BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA


Paper
Title
Page



MOI1B01
High Intensity Issues at FAIR
11


 

O.K. Kester
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
O.K. Kester
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany

 


 

Funding: Supported by the BMBF and Helmholtz International Center for FAIR
The facility for antiproton and ion research - FAIR - will produce secondary beams of unprecedented intensities [1]. In order to produce such intense secondary beams and to provide intense beams for the CBM [2] and APPA [3] collaboration, primary heavy ion beams of highest intensities will be required. The main driver accelerator of FAIR will be the SIS100 synchrotron. The GSI heavy ion accelerator facility will be the injector of ion beams for SIS100. In order to reach the final intensities above 1011 ions per cycle, the injector chain has to be modified accordingly and the SIS100 has to be tailored to the needs. Therefore an intensity upgrade program of the GSI accelerator facility has been started, which comprises improvements of ion sources, of the injector linacs and of the heavy ion synchrotron SIS18. In addition, high energy beam transport and the SIS100 need to have a dedicated design, in order to handle beam losses. The issues of the upgrade programme and of the SIS100 design will be addressed.
[1] FAIR Green Paper- The Modularized Start Version, Oct.2009  [2] B.Friman et al.,The CBM physics Book, Series: Lecture Notes in Physics, Vol.814,2011 [3] http://www.fair-center.de/de/oeffentlichkeit/experimenteprogramm/appa-physics.html

 






Slides MOI1B01 [15.662 MB]
            
 


 



MOI1B02
Technological Challenges for High-Intensity Proton Rings
15


 

Y. Yamazaki
                       FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science under Cooperative Agreement DE-SC0000661
High-intensity, pulsed proton accelerators have been and will be requested by a wide variety of scientific fields and industrial and medical applications, for example, pulsed spallation neutron sources and neutrino sources. We will focus our discussion on the proton rings with a pulse length of a few μsec and a beam power of MW. These accelerators may be used for boosting injectors to higher-energy accelerators, like a neutrino factories. At first, we will discuss on the space-charge force which limit the stored charges in a ring together with the negative-ion injection scheme. The pulsed spallation neutron sources are classified into two schemes. One is the combination of a full-energy linac and an accumulation ring (AR) exemplified by SNS and LANSCE. The other is that of a low-energy linac and a Rapid-Cycle Synchrotron (RCS) exemplified by J-PARC RCS and ISIS. In general, pros and cons of accelerator schemes are dependent upon the technological development results. Pros and cons of AR versus RCS will be discussed on the basis of recent technological developments and beam experiment data together with the future perspectives for MW-class machines.

 






Slides MOI1B02 [3.850 MB]
            
 


 



MOI1B03
Technical Challenges in Multi-MW Proton Linacs
20


 

V.A. Lebedev
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

The intensity frontier research is an important part of modern elementary particle physics. It uses proton beams to create secondary beams consisting of, but not necessary limited to, neutrinos, muons, kaons and neutrons. Deferent experiments require different time structure of proton beams but all of them require the beam power of about or exceeding 1 MW. In addition, powerful proton linacs can find an application in accelerator driven nuclear reactors and transmutation of radioactive waste. Recent advances in the superconducting RF technology make a multi-MW power level economically acceptable. This paper discusses main physics and technical limitations determining ultimate parameters of such accelerators, their structure and performance.

 






Slides MOI1B03 [2.863 MB]
            
 


 




