













HB2012 - Table of Session: THO1B (Working Group-A)


THO1B —  Working Group-A   (20-Sep-12   10:50—12:30)
Chair: G. Franchetti, GSI, Darmstadt, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



THO1B01
A Quest for a Superior Ion Beam for a High Luminosity Electron-Ion Collider
 


 

Y. Zhang
                       JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA

 


 

Funding: Authored by Jefferson Science Associates, LLC under U.S. DOE Contract No. DE-AC05-06OR23177 and DE-AC02-06CH11357.
The high luminosity goal of MEIC, the envisioned medium energy ring-ring electron-ion collider at Jefferson Lab, is achieved through the implementation of a design concept based on high bunch repetition rate colliding beams with a crab crossing. Recently at Jefferson Lab, an ion injector and storage ring complex has been designed for delivering a required ion beam of superior qualities characterized by ultra short bunch length and ultra small emittance. Such ion beams are possible due to advantages of the high bunch repetition rate, ultra small bunch charges, and multi-staged beam cooling. This paper will present highlights of the design of this ion complex and the scheme of ion beam formation. We then present the staged beam cooling scheme followed by a discussion on its critical role in the ion beam formation process. We further will present the design concept of a medium energy electron cooler for the ion collider ring utilizing two advanced accelerator technologies, namely, ERL and circulator ring. Lastly we will present a recent proposal of a test facility based on the JLab FEL driver ERL for a technology demonstration of this medium energy ERL circulator cooler concept.
# yzhang@jlabl.org

 






Slides THO1B01 [2.127 MB]
            
 


 



THO1B02
Test of Optical Stochastic Cooling in Fermilab
514


 

V.A. Lebedev
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA
M.S. Zolotorev
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA

 


 

A new 150 MeV electron storage ring is planned to be build in Fermilab. The construction of new machine pursues two goals a test of highly non-linear integrable optics and a test of optical stochastic cooling (OSC). This paper discusses details of OSC arrangements and choice of major parameters of the cooling scheme. At the first step the cooling will be achieved without optical amplifier. It should introduce the damping rates of about 1 order of magnitudes higher than the cooling rates due to synchrotron radiation. Similar scheme looks as a promising technique for the LHC luminosity upgrade. Its details are also discussed.

 






Slides THO1B02 [1.109 MB]
            
 


 



THO1B03
Measurement of Optics Errors and Space Charge Effects
517


 

K. Ohmi, Y. Sato, J. Takano
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
S. Hatakeyama
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-mura, Japan

 


 

Beta function and x-y coupling are measured using turn-by-turn monitor system in J-PARC MR. Errors of the optics parameters induce to undesirable resonances due to lattice nonlinear magnets and space charge force. We estimate the resonance strength and the degradation of emittance growth and beam loss.

 






Slides THO1B03 [2.240 MB]
            
 


 



THO1B04
Space Charge Effects in the NICA Collider Rings
522


 

O.S. Kozlov, S.A. Kostromin, I.N. Meshkov, A.O. Sidorin, A.V. Smirnov, G.V. Trubnikov
                       JINR, Dubna, Moscow Region, Russia
A.V. Eliseev
                       JINR/VBLHEP, Dubna, Moscow region, Russia
T. Katayama
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

Accelerator complex NICA, developed at JINR, will provide an ion-ion (Au79+) collisions at energies of 1-4.5 GeV/u, as well as experiments on collisions of polarized proton-proton and deuteron-deuteron beams. The calculations of the optical properties of superconducting collider rings have been aimed to create appropriate conditions for the collisions of beams and obtaining the required luminosity parameters in the working range of energies. The collider characteristics and the beam dynamics have been worked out mainly for ion-ion mode of the complex. The main effects limiting luminosity are the space charge dominating at the range of 1-3 GeV/u and the intrabeam scattering dominating for 3-4.5 GeV/u beams. Application of both electron and stochastic cooling methods is essential feature of the project. That allows us to suppress these effects in the corresponding energy ranges.

 






Slides THO1B04 [3.938 MB]
            
 


 



THO1B05
Broad-band Transverse Feedback against e-cloud or TMCI: Plan and Status
527


 

C.H. Rivetta, J.M. Cesaratto, J.D. Fox, M.T.F. Pivi, O. Turgut, S. Uemura
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA
W. Höfle, K.S.B. Li
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The feedback control of intra-bunch instabilities driven by electron-clouds or strong head-tail coupling (Transverse mode coupled instabilities, TMCI) requires bandwidth sufficient to sense the vertical position and apply multiple corrections within a nanosecond-scale bunch. These requirements impose challenges and limits in the design and implementation of the feedback system. To develop the feedback control prototype, different research areas have been pursed to model and identify the bunch dynamics, design the feedback control and implement the GigaHertz bandwidth hardware. This paper presents those R&D lines and reports on the progress as it stands today. It presents preliminary results of feedback systems stabilizing the transverse intra-bunch motion, based on macro-particle simulation codes (CMAD / HeadTail) and measurement results of the beam motion when it is driven by particular excitation signals.

 






Slides THO1B05 [7.197 MB]
            
 


 




