













HB2012 - Table of Session: WEO3A (Working Group-C)


WEO3A —  Working Group-C   (19-Sep-12   09:00—10:20)
Chair: H.W. Zhao, IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China


Paper
Title
Page



WEO3A01
High Energy Electron Cooling
363


 

V.B. Reva, M.I. Bryzgunov, V.M. Panasyuk, V.V. Parkhomchuk
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

The electron cooler of a 2 MeV for COSY storage ring FZJ is assembled in BINP. This paper describes the first experimental results from the electron cooler with electron beam and high voltage. The cooling section is designed on the classic scheme of low energy coolers like cooler CSRm, CSRe, LEIR that was produced in BINP before. The electron beam is transported inside the longitudinal magnetic field along whole trajectory from an electron gun to a collector. This optic scheme is stimulated by the wide range of the working energies 0.1(0.025)-2 MeV. The electrostatic accelerator consists of 34 individual unify section. Each section contains two HV power supply (±30 kV) and power supply of the magnetic coils. The electrical power to each section is provided by the cascade transformer. The cascade transformer is the set of the transformer connected in series with isolating winding.

 






Slides WEO3A01 [7.902 MB]
            
 


 



WEO3A02
Beam Loss and Collimation in the ESS Linac
368


 

R. Miyamoto, B. Cheymol, H. Danared, M. Eshraqi, A. Ponton, J. Stovall, L. Tchelidze
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden
I. Bustinduy
                       ESS Bilbao, Bilbao, Spain
A.I.S. Holm, S.P. Møller, H.D. Thomsen
                       ISA, Aarhus, Denmark

 


 

The European Spallation Source (ESS), to be built in Lund, Sweden, is a spallation neutron source based on a 5 MW proton linac. A high power proton linac has a tight tolerance on beam losses to avoid activation of its components and it is ideal to study patterns of the beam loss and prepare beam loss mitigation schemes at the design stage. This paper presents simulations of the beam loss in the ESS linac as well as beam loss mitigation schemes using collimators in beam transport sections.

 






Slides WEO3A02 [6.377 MB]
            
 


 



WEO3A03
Extraction, Transport and Collimation of the PSI 1.3 MW Proton Beam
373


 

D. Reggiani
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

With an average operating beam power of 1.3 MW the PSI proton accelerator complex is currently leading the race towards the high intensity frontier of particle accelerators. This talk gives an overview of the extraction of the 590 MeV beam from the ring cyclotron and its low loss transport to the meson production targets M and E as well as to the SINQ spallation neutron source. Particular regard is given to the collimator system reshaping the beam which leaves the 40 mm thick graphite target E before reaching SINQ. Since 2011, up to 8 second long beam macro-pulses are regularly diverted to the new UCN spallation source by means of a fast kicker magnet. The switchover from the SINQ to the UCN beam line as well as the smooth beam transport up to the UCN spallation target constitute the subject of the last part of the talk.

 






Slides WEO3A03 [2.728 MB]
            
 


 



WEO3A04
Current and Planned High Proton Flux Operations at the FNAL Booster
378


 

F.G.G. Garcia, W. Pellico
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: Department of Energy - Office of High Energy Physics
The Fermi Lab Proton Source has seen a dramatic increase in requested flux this past decade. An increase of over ten fold in hourly flux was necessary to meet the FNAL HEP experimental requirements. This next decade will be just as challenging as the lab's HEP planning will again require the Proton Source to double the hourly flux. The recent achievements were accomplished with major upgrades such a collimation system, new correctors and aperture improvements. To achieve the next level of proton delivery rates will require even more improvements. A five year Proton Improvement Plan (PIP) is currently underway with a goal to maintain 2012 activation levels while doubling the hourly flux. Tasks in the PIP to help reduce losses include an improved beam notching system, cogging, aperture improvement and beam emittances control and reduction. This talk will describe current conditions and plans to mitigate losses with the planned increase in proton throughput.

 






Slides WEO3A04 [8.309 MB]
            
 


 




