













HB2012 - Table of Session: TUO1A (Working Group-A)


TUO1A —  Working Group-A   (18-Sep-12   09:00—10:20)
Chair: G. Franchetti, GSI, Darmstadt, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



TUO1A01
The High Intensity/High Brightness Upgrade Program at CERN: Status and Challenges
226


 

S.S. Gilardoni, G. Arduini, T. Argyropoulos, S. Aumon, H. Bartosik, E. Benedetto, N. Biancacci, T. Bohl, J. Borburgh, C. Carli, F. Caspers, H. Damerau, J.F. Esteban Müller, V. Forte, R. Garoby, M. Giovannozzi, B. Goddard, S. Hancock, K. Hanke, A. Huschauer, G. Iadarola, M. Meddahi, G. Métral, B. Mikulec, E. Métral, Y. Papaphilippou, S. Persichelli, G. Rumolo, B. Salvant, F. Schmidt, E.N. Shaposhnikova, R. Steerenberg, G. Sterbini, M. Taborelli, H. Timko, M. Vretenar, R. Wasef, C. Yin Vallgren, C. Zannini
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
G. Franchetti
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
M. Migliorati
                       University of Rome "La Sapienza", Rome, Italy
A.Y. Molodozhentsev
                       J-PARC, KEK & JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan
M.T.F. Pivi
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA
V.G. Vaccaro
                       Naples University Federico II, Mathematical, Physical and Natural Sciences Faculty, Napoli, Italy

 


 

The future beam brilliance and intensities required by the HL-LHC (High-Luminosity LHC) project and for possible new neutrino production beams triggered a deep revision of the LHC injector performances. The analysis, progressing in the framework of the LHC Injectors Upgrade (LIU) projects, outlined major limitations mainly related to collective effects - space charge in PSB and PS, electron cloud driven and TMCI instabilities in the SPS, longitudinal coupled bunch instabilities in the PS for example - but also to the existing hardware capability to cope with beam instabilities and losses. A summary of the observations and simulation studies carried out so far, as well as the future ones, will be presented. The solution proposed to overcome the different limitations and the plans for their implementation will be also briefly reviewed.

 






Slides TUO1A01 [12.748 MB]
            
 


 



TUO1A02
Status of Collective Effects at GSI
 


 

O. Boine-Frankenheim
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

A profound understanding and control of collective effects in ion beams will be necessary to reach the design intensity and quality in the existing SIS-18 synchrotron and in the projected SIS-100 for the FAIR project. Simulation and experimental studies of collective effects are therefore an integral part of the ongoing SIS-18 intensity upgrade and the SIS-100 design activities at GSI. In both rings collective effects are caused simultaneously by space charge, impedances and secondary particles. They occur in the longitudinal and transverse planes, in coasting beams as well as for different rf bucket forms. After a brief outline of the role of collective effects at GSI this contribution will focus on recent findings related to the interpretation of signals from intense bunches with space charge. The correct processing of these signals will be especially important for beam diagnostics and feedback control.

 






Slides TUO1A02 [1.937 MB]
            
 


 



TUO1A03
Space Charge Effects in Isochronous FFAGs and Cyclotrons
231


 

T. Planche, R.A. Baartman, Y.-N. Rao
                       TRIUMF, Vancouver, Canada

 


 

Effects of space charge forces on the beam dynamics of isochronous rings will be discussed. Two different kinds of phenomena will be introduced through a brief review of the literature on the topic. The first one is a consequence of the very weak vertical focusing found in the low energy region of most cyclotrons. The space charge tune shift further reduces the vertical focusing, setting an upper limit on instantaneous current. The second one arises from the fact that longitudinal phase space is frozen in isochronous rings. This leads to effects of space charge forces which are very peculiar to isochronous machines. We will finally present the simulation tools being developed at TRIUMF to study these effects.

 






Slides TUO1A03 [0.974 MB]
            
 


 



TUO1A04
Plasma Traps for Space-charge Studies: Status and Perspectives
235


 

H. Okamoto, K. Fukushima, H. Higaki, K. Ito, K. Moriya, T. Okano, S. Yamaguchi
                       HU/AdSM, Higashi-Hiroshima, Japan
M. Endo
                       Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima, Japan
A. Mohri
                       Kyoto University, Graduate School of Human and Environmental Studies, Kyoto, Japan

 


 

Funding: Work supported in part by a Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research, Japan Society for the Promotion of Science.
The beam physics group of Hiroshima University has developed non-neutral plasma traps dedicated solely to a wide range of beam dynamics studies. Those unique experimental tools approximately reproduce, in the laboratory frame, a many-body Coulomb system that is physically equivalent to a charged-particle beam observed in the center-of-mass frame. We have designed and constructed two different types of traps that employ either a radio-frequency electric quadrupole field or an axial magnetic field for transverse particle confinement. The former type is commonly referred to as "linear Paul trap" and the latter as "Penning trap". At present, three Paul traps and one Penning trap are operational while a new Penning trap for beam halo experiments is under construction. Each of these compact experimental facilities consists of a trap, many power supplies, a vacuum system, a computer control system, etc., and is called "S-POD (Simulator for Particle Orbit Dynamics)". S-POD is particularly useful for fundamental studies of high-intensity and high-brightness hadron beams. We here report on recent experimental outputs from S-POD and also briefly describe some future plans.

 






Slides TUO1A04 [7.790 MB]
            
 


 




