













HB2012 - Table of Session: WEO3C (Working Group-C)


WEO3C —  Working Group-C   (19-Sep-12   14:00—16:30)
Chair: D. Li, LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA


Paper
Title
Page



WEO3C01
Injection and Stripping Foil Studies for a 180 MeV Injection Upgrade at ISIS
456


 

B. Jones, D.J. Adams, M.C. Hughes, S.J.S. Jago, B.G. Pine, H. V. Smith, C.M. Warsop, R.E. Williamson
                       STFC/RAL/ISIS, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom

 


 

The Rutherford Appleton Laboratory (RAL) is home to ISIS, the world's most productive spallation neutron source. ISIS has two neutron producing target stations (TS-1 and TS-2), operated at 40 Hz and 10 Hz respectively with a 50 Hz, 800 MeV proton beam from a rapid cycling synchrotron (RCS), which is fed by a 70 MeV H− drift tube linac. The multi-turn charge-exchange injection process used on ISIS has been the subject of a programme of detailed studies in recent years including benchmarked simulations and experiments. More recently, these studies have been expanded as plans for upgrading ISIS have focussed on replacement of the 70 MeV linac with a new, higher energy injector and a new synchrotron injection straight. Whilst much of these studies have been reported elsewhere, this paper presents a summary of the programme with some further details.

 






Slides WEO3C01 [4.895 MB]
            
 


 



WEO3C02
Collimation of Ion Beams
461


 

I. Strašík, O. Boine-Frankenheim
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

The SIS 100 synchrotron as part of the FAIR project at GSI will accelerate various beam species from proton to uranium. An important issue is to minimize uncontrolled beam losses using a collimation system. An application of the two-stage collimation concept, well established for proton accelerators, is considered for the fully-stripped ion beams. The two-stage system consists of a primary collimator (a scattering foil) and secondary collimators (bulky absorbers). The main tasks of this study are:  to specify beam optics of the system,  to calculate dependence of the scattering angle in the foil on the projectile species,  to investigate importance of the inelastic nuclear interaction in the foil and  to calculate dependence of the collimation efficiency on the projectile species. A concept for the collimation of partially-stripped ions is based on the stripping of remaining electrons and deflecting using a beam optical element towards a dump location. Residual activation and radiation damage issues of collimator materials are also being studied at GSI. Experimental results from irradiation of carbon-based materials by heavy ions are presented.

 






Slides WEO3C02 [1.485 MB]
            
 


 



WEO3C03
Beam Halo Dynamics and Control with Hollow Electron Beams
466


 

G. Stancari, G. Annala, A. Didenko, T.R. Johnson, I.A. Morozov, V. Previtali, G.W. Saewert, V.D. Shiltsev, D.A. Still, A. Valishev, L.G. Vorobiev
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA
R.W. Aßmann, R. Bruce, S. Redaelli, A. Rossi, B. Salvachua, G. Valentino
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
D.N. Shatilov
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

Funding: Fermilab is operated by Fermi Research Alliance, LLC under Contract DE-AC02-07CH11359 with the US Department of Energy. Partial support was provided by the US LHC Accelerator Research Program (LARP).
Experimental measurements of beam halo diffusion dynamics with collimator scans are reviewed. The concept of halo control with a hollow electron beam collimator, its demonstration at the Tevatron, and its possible applications at the LHC are discussed.

 






Slides WEO3C03 [5.139 MB]
            
 


 



WEO3C04
Long Baseline Neutrino Experiment Target Material Radiation Damage Studies Using Energetic Protons of the Brookhaven Linear Isotope Production (BLIP) Facility
471


 

N. Simos
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA
P. Hurh
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA
Z. Kotsina
                       NCSR Demokritos, Attiki, Greece

 


 

One of the future multi-MW accelerators is the LBNE Experiment where Fermilab plans to produce a beam of neutrinos with a 2.3 MW proton beam as part of a suite of experiments associated with ProjectX. Specifically, the LBNE Neutrino Beam Facility aims for a 2+ MW, 60-120 GeV pulsed,high intensity proton beam produced in the ProjectX accelerator intercepted by a low Z solid target to facilitate the production of low energy neutrinos. The multi-MW level LBNE proton beam will be characterized by intensities of the order of 1.6·10+14 p/pulse, σradius of 1.5-3.5 mm and a 9.8 μs pulse length. These parameters are expected to push many target materials to their limit thus making the target design very challenging. Recent experience from operating high intensity beams on targets have indicated that several critical design issues exist namely thermal shock,heat removal, radiation damage,radiation accelerated corrosion effects,and residual radiation within the target envelope. A series of experimental studies on radiation damage and thermal shock response conducted at BNL and focusing on low-Z materials have unraveled potential issues regarding the damageability from energetic particle beams which may differ significantly from thermal reactor experience. Irradiation damage results for low-Z materials associated with the LBNE and other high power experiments will be presented.

 






Slides WEO3C04 [3.965 MB]
            
 


 



WEO3C05
Radiation Effect Modeling at Intensity Frontier: Status and Uncertainties
 


 

N.V. Mokhov
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Fermi Research Alliance, LLC, under contract No. DE-AC02-07CH11359 with the U.S. Department of Energy
The next generation of accelerators for Mega-Watt proton, electron and heavy-ion beams, such as Project X, ESS and FAIR projects, puts unprecedented requirements on the predictive power and accuracy of the codes used to simulate particle interactions with accelerator components and targets. Status of the codes used by the community is described in the following categories: particle and nuclide production, electromagnetic interactions, instantaneous, transient and accumulated energy deposition effects, radiation damage and radiation shielding. Uncertainties in the code predictions are estimated in each of these categories. The needs for further code developments and for experimental data are identified.

 






Slides WEO3C05 [2.315 MB]
            
 


 



WEO3C06
Understanding Ion Induced Radiation Damage in Target Materials
476


 

M. Tomut, C.L. Hubert
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
M. Tomut
                       INFIM, Bucharest, Romania

 


 

Successful operation of next generations of radioactive beam facilities depends on the target survival in conditions of intense radiation field and thermo-mechanical solicitations induced by the driving ion beam. Material property degradation due to ion- beam induced damage will limit target lifetime, either by affecting target performance or, by reducing the material resilience. Similar problems are faced by beam protection elements at LHC. Understanding the mechanism of radiation damage induced by ion beam in these materials provides valuable knowledge for lifetime prediction and for the efforts to mitigate performance degradation. On their way through the target material, energetic heavy ions induce a trail of ionizations and excitations, resulting in formation of ion tracks consisting of complex defect structures. We give a review on the ion-induced damage creation in high power target materials, on the structural and thermo-mechanical property degradation and on their recovery in high temperature irradiation experiments.

 






Slides WEO3C06 [4.439 MB]
            
 


 




