













HB2012 - Table of Session: MOI1A (Invited Plenary - Session A)


MOI1A —  Invited Plenary - Session A   (17-Sep-12   09:10—10:20)
Chair: J.Q. Wang, IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China


Paper
Title
Page



MOI1A01
LHC - Challenges in Handling Beams Exceeding 100 MJ
1


 

R. Schmidt
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at CERN operates at 4 TeV with high intensity beams, with bunch intensities exceeding the nominal value by several 10 %. The energy stored in each beams is beyond 130 MJ, less than a factor of three from the nominal value at 7 TeV. With these parameters, operation entered into a regime where various effects due to high intensity bunches are observed (instabilities, beam-beam effects, e-cloud effects). The highly efficient collimation system limits beam losses that threaten to quench superconducting magnets. The correct functioning of the machine protection systems is vital during the different operational phases, where already a small fraction of the stored energy is sufficient to damage accelerator equipment or experiments in case of uncontrolled beam loss. Safe operation in presence of such high intensity proton beams is guaranteed by the interplay of many different systems: beam dumping system, beam interlocks, beam instrumentation, equipment monitoring, collimators and absorbers. The experience gained with the key systems of LHC machine protection and collimation will be discussed.

 






Slides MOI1A01 [31.116 MB]
            
 


 



MOI1A02
J-PARC Recovery Status
6


 

K. Yamamoto
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-Mura, Naka-Gun, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan

 


 

J-PARC facilities were seriously damaged by the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011, but all facilities resumed a beam operation from December 2012. We report the operation status of J-PARC accelerators after the earthquake.

 






Slides MOI1A02 [12.726 MB]
            
 


 




