













HB2012 - Table of Session: FRO1B (Working group summaries & Closing)


FRO1B —  Working group summaries & Closing   (21-Sep-12   10:45—11:45)
Chair: C. Zhang, IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China


Paper
Title
Page



FRO1B01
Summary of the Working Group on Commissioning and Operation
620


 

R. Schmidt
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
M.A. Plum
                       ORNL, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA
Y. Sato
                       J-PARC, KEK & JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan

 


 

The Working Group D summary report focussed on answering the following issues:  observation of beam losses (e.g. time structure, other parameters,…),  reducing beam losses with operational parameters away from the design set points,  reducing beam losses (or concentrating beam losses at a few locations) using collimators,  minimizing beam losses due to beam transfer from one accelerator to the following accelerator - what parameters are important?  The issue of reducing beam losses with operational parameters away from the design set points is especially valuable as it is rarely discussed.

 






Slides FRO1B01 [0.426 MB]
            
 


 



FRO1B02
Qinclosing Plenary Summary of Working Group E:Diagnostics and Instrumentation for High-Intensity Beams
625


 

R. Dölling
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland
N. Hayashi
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-Mura, Naka-Gun, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan
V.E. Scarpine
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Working Group E Summary: Working group E was charged with presentations and discussions on diagnostics and instrumentation of high intensity beams. We had 2 sessions, consisting of a total of 12 talks, each of 20 minutes for presentation followed by some discussion. One session was followed by a discussion session of two hours. All sessions took place in parallel with the sessions of WG-D (Commissioning, operations and performance), inevitably preventing some possibly useful overlap. In addition, seven posters, regarding beam diagnostics, were presented in the single poster session.

 






Slides FRO1B02 [18.507 MB]
            
 


 




