













HB2012 - Table of Session: TUO3A (Working Group-B&C)


TUO3A —  Working Group-B&C   (18-Sep-12   09:00—10:20)
Chair: D. Raparia, BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA


Paper
Title
Page



TUO3A01
Dynamical Aspects of Emittance Coupling in Intense Beams
240


 

I. Hofmann
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
I. Hofmann
                       HIJ, Jena, Germany

 


 

In this paper we study in an idealized lattice model the dynamical behavior of non-equipartitioned beams and of approach to equipartition. It is shown that emittance transfer depends on times scales of tune change, but also the direction of crossing the stopbands of space charge resonances. This provides additional information to support the stability charts suggested previously as design tool for high current linacs.

 






Slides TUO3A01 [4.897 MB]
            
 


 



TUO3A02
Status and Results of the UA9 Crystal Collimation Experiment at the CERN-SPS
245


 

S. Montesano, W. Scandale
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The UA9 experimental setup was installed in the CERN-SPS in 2009 to investigate the feasibility of the halo collimation assisted by bent crystals. Two-millimeter-long silicon crystals, with bending angles of about 150 microrad, are used as primary collimators instead than a standard amorphous target. Studies are performed with stored beams of protons and lead ions at 270 Z GeV. The loss profile is precisely measured in the area near to the crystal-collimator setup and in the downstream dispersion suppressor. A strong correlation of the losses in the two areas is observed and a steady reduction of dispersive losses is recorded at the onset of the channeling process. The loss map in the accelerator ring is is also reduced. These observations strongly support our expectation that the coherent deflection of the beam halo by a bent crystal should enhance the collimation efficiency in hadron colliders, such as LHC.
for the UA9 Collaboration

 






Slides TUO3A02 [5.936 MB]
            
 


 



TUO3A03
Equipartition, Reality or Swindle?
250


 

J.-M. Lagniel
                       GANIL, Caen, France

 


 

By way of introduction to a general discussion on space-charge induced energy equipartition (EQP), the following questions will be tackled: Why the formula presently used to define EQP is wrong? Why energy exchanges can occur although the EQP rule is respected? Why safe tunings can be find although the EQP rule is not respected? Why EQP is a swindle for a large majority of our accelerated beams? Why LINAC designers nevertheless like to use the EQP rule?

 






Slides TUO3A03 [1.537 MB]
            
 


 




