













HB2014 - Table of Session: TUO2AB (Working Group F)


TUO2AB —  Working Group F   (11-Nov-14   10:50—12:30)
Chair: T. Toyama, KEK, Ibaraki, Japan


Paper
Title
Page



TUO2AB01
Beam Instrumentation and Limitations for Multi MW Pulsed Proton Linacs
 


 

A. Jansson
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden

 


 

This presentation focuses on the challenges and limitations related to measuring some of the relevant properties of very high intensity pulsed proton beams in linear accelerators. Among such properties are the transverse and longitudinal distributions, including the tails (halo). Challenges include energy deposition in invasive devices, as well as as very short bunches in combination with slow (beta<1) beams. An overview of methods used or currently considered will be given.

 






Slides TUO2AB01 [7.484 MB]
        
 


 



TUO2AB02
Halo Matching for High Intensity Linacs and Dedicated Diagnostics
 


 

N. Chauvin, J. Marroncle, P.A.P. Nghiem
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France
P. Abbon, D. Uriot
                       CEA/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France

 


 

Minimizing beam losses is one of the biggest challenge of very high power linac (MW range). In some cases, beam matching concentrating on minimizing emittance growth is not the most appropriate approach; a direct matching of the halo itself is preferable. We propose a method consisting in minimizing the beam extent, using the Particle Swarm Optimization algorithm that is well suitable to nonlinear systems governed by many parameters. In this article, an application of halo matching simulations is given in the case of the IFMIF superconducting linac. Development of dedicated diagnostics for in-situ implementation of this method on linacs are briefly presented. The beam diagnostic types and locations needed for machine tuning with halo matching are detailed.

 






Slides TUO2AB02 [7.922 MB]
        
 


 



TUO2AB03
Beam Diagnostics for the Detection and Understanding of Beam Halo
183


 

K. Wittenburg
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

A general view that has been recently reached by different methods of halo diagnostics of high brightness hadron beams will be given. The performance (dynamic range, accuracy ) of various monitor types will be combined with the demands from beam dynamics of different machines to discuss which methods can be envisaged for the future. The discussion will include low and high energy machines and their related halo detection schemes.

 






Slides TUO2AB03 [3.154 MB]
        
 


 



TUO2AB04
Two-Dimensional and Wide Dynamic Range Profile Monitor Using OTR / Fluorescence Screens for Diagnosing Beam Halo of Intense Proton Beams
187


 

Y. Hashimoto, M. Tejima, T. Toyama
                       J-PARC, KEK & JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan
A. Akino, Y. Omori, S. Otsu, H. Sakai
                       Mitsubishi Electric System & Service Co., Ltd, Tsukuba, Japan
T.M. Mitsuhashi
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

An instrument which can diagnose a two-dimensional beam profile of the beam core together with the beam halo in wide dynamic range has been developed in the J-PARC. The instrument consists of OTR (Ti foil of 10 μm) screen, fluorescence (Cr doped alumina) screen, an Offner type imaging system, and a camera with image intensifier. The beam core is observed with OTR and the beam halo is observed with fluorescence screen, respectively. A combination of observations of beam core and halo with these two different screens that have different sensitivities allowed us an observation in wide-dynamic range. The four fluorescence screens are set in vertical and horizontal arrangement. Both the OTR and fluorescence are focused by an Offner type optics having a very wide incident pupil makes these images. This instrument is set in the beam transport line between the rapid cycling synchrotron and the main ring. A two dimensional profile of the beam core and the halo were successfully observed in six order of magnitude at projected plane using intense 3 GeV proton beams of 1.5 x 1013 protons. This monitor has a big advantage for the diagnostic of beam core and halo shapes in real space.
[1] Y. Hashimoto, et al., A Development of High Sensitive Beam Profile Monitor Using Multi-Screen, Proc. IBIC2013, 338-341.

 






Slides TUO2AB04 [3.172 MB]
        
 


 




