













HB2014 - Table of Session: THO4AB (Working Group F)


THO4AB —  Working Group F   (13-Nov-14   16:20—18:00)
Chair: N.V. Mokhov, Fermilab, Batavia, Illinois, USA


Paper
Title
Page



THO4AB01
Material Response to High-Power Beams
 


 

G. Škoro
                       STFC/RAL/ISIS, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom

 


 

The main issue for the materials used in the target systems (targets, beam windows, beam dumps, the pipes for contained liquid/powder jets, etc.) is the magnitude and the rate of change of deposited energy density. As the beam power increases, and the beam pulse length decreases, the estimate of material strength and corresponding lifetime based on simple, quasi-static equations is no longer accurate. In these cases the materials are tested dynamically and they behave differently than under quasi-static loading. The overview of the challenges on the road to address this problem will be presented. An account will be given of the constitutive models that offer insight into the deformation mechanisms and their possible application in estimating the lifetime of the materials used in the high power target systems. Special attention will be paid to the lessons learned at the current spallation neutron sources and preparation for the next generation of the high power spallation neutron sources.

 






Slides THO4AB01 [7.139 MB]
        
 


 



THO4AB02
DPA and Gas Production in Intermediate and High Energy Particle Interactions with Accelerator Components
433


 

A. Konobeev, U. Fischer
                       KIT, Eggenstein-Leopoldshafen, Germany

 


 

The evaluation of radiation damage and gas production rates in irradiated materials is a challenging task combining the modelling of the various underlying nuclear reaction processes, the simulation of the material behavior, and taking into account, as far as possible, experimental data. This talk presents a brief overview of molecular dynamics and binary collision approximation model simulations performed over the last years for structural materials for the estimation of the number of defects produced under irradiation. The calculation of recoil energy distributions using a Monte Carlo based intranuclear cascade evaporation model (INC), deterministic pre-equilibrium exciton evaporation model (PE), and evaluated data files is discussed. A special attention is given to the evaluation of gas production cross-sections using nuclear models, experimental data, and systematics predictions. Results of calculations using popular INC and PE based codes, including CEM and TALYS, are compared. Perspectives of the use of the evaluated data files for dpa and gas production cross-sections at intermediate and high energies are discussed.

 






Slides THO4AB02 [1.452 MB]
        
 


 



THO4AB03
Novel Materials for Collimators at LHC and its Upgrades
438


 

A. Bertarelli, F. Carra, A. Dallocchio, M. Garlaschè, L. Gentini, P. Gradassi, M. Guinchard, E. Quaranta, S. Redaelli, A. Rossi, O. Sacristan De Frutos
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
E. Quaranta
                       Politecnico/Milano, Milano, Italy

 


 

Funding: The research leading to these results has received funding from the European Commission under the FP7 Research Infrastructures project EuCARD-2, grant agreement no.312453
Collimators for last-generation particle accelerators like the LHC, must be designed to withstand the close interaction with intense and energetic particle beams, safely operating over an extended range of temperatures in harsh environments, while minimizing the perturbing effects, such as instabilities induced by RF impedance, on the circulating beam. The choice of materials for collimator active components is of paramount importance to meet these requirements, which are to become even more demanding with the increase of machine performances expected in future upgrades, such as the High Luminosity LHC (HL-LHC). Consequently, a far-reaching R&D program has been launched to develop novel materials with excellent thermal shock resistance and high thermal and electrical conductivity, replacing or complementing materials used for present collimators. Molybdenum Carbide - Graphite and Copper-Diamond composites have been so far identified as the most promising materials. The manufacturing methods, properties and application potential of these composites will be reviewed along with the experimental program which is to test their viability when exposed to high intensity particle beams.

 






Slides THO4AB03 [9.405 MB]
        
 


 




