













HB2012 - Table of Session: THO1A (Working Group-A)


THO1A —  Working Group-A   (20-Sep-12   09:00—10:20)
Chair: G. Franchetti, GSI, Darmstadt, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



THO1A01
Beam-beam Effects in RHIC
479


 

Y. Luo, M. Bai, W. Fischer, C. Montag, S.M. White
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Brookhaven Science Associates, LLC under Contract No. DE-AC02-98CH10886 with the U.S. Department of Energy.
In this article we will review the beam-beam effects in the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider (RHIC). We will cover the experimental observations, beam-beam simulation techniques and results, and head-on beam-beam compensation with electron lenses. The next luminosity goal in the RHIC polarized proton operation is to double the luminosity with a higher proton bunch intensity. After the upgrade, the beam-beam parameter will reach 0.03. Head-on beam-beam compensation is aimed to reduce the beam-beam tune spread and non-linear beam-beam resonance driving terms.

 






Slides THO1A01 [1.355 MB]
            
 


 



THO1A02
Effects of Magnetic Field Tracking Errors and Space Charge on Beam Dynamics at CSNS/RCS
484


 

S.Y. Xu, N. Wang, S. Wang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

The China Spallation Neutron Source (CSNS) is an accelerator-based facility. It operates at 25 Hz repetition rate with an design beam power of 100 kW. CSNS consists of a 1.6-GeV Rapid Cycling Synchrotron (RCS) and a 80-MeV linac. The lattice of the CSNS/RCS is triplet based four-fold structure. The preferred working points of CSNS/RCS are (4.86, 4.78) which can avoid the major low-order structure resonances. But because of the chromatic tune shift, space-charge incoherent tune shift and the tune shift caused by magnetic field tracking errors between the quadrupoles and the dipoles, some structure resonances are unavoidable. The chromaticity, space charge effects and magnetic field tracking errors can also induce beta function distortion, and influence the transverse acceptance and the collimation efficiency of the collimation system. In this paper we show results of space-charge simulations introducing magnetic field tracking errors and discuss the combined effects of chromaticity, magnetic field tracking errors and space charge on the beam dynamics for CSNS/RCS.

 






Slides THO1A02 [1.613 MB]
            
 


 



THO1A03
Dual-harmonic Acceleration Studies at CSNS RCS
487


 

J.F. Chen, J.Y. Tang, X. Zhang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

Dual harmonic acceleration is proposed to alleviate the space charge effects in the RCS (Rapid Cycling Synchrotron) at the upgrading stages of the CSNS (China Spallation Neutron Source). Different dual harmonic acceleration schemes have been studied by using a self-made parameter calculation code - RAMADH and the simulation code - ORBIT. Both complete and partial coverage of the dual harmonic RF system along the acceleration have been considered. The injection by combining beam chopping and off-momentum is used in the macro-particle tracking simulations by ORBIT. In addition, a new idea that unlocks the RF frequency and the magnetic field in the injection period is found very useful in obtaining a good longitudinal painting.

 






Slides THO1A03 [1.343 MB]
            
 


 



THO1A04
High Intensity Longitudinal Dynamics Studies for an ISIS Injection Upgrade
492


 

R.E. Williamson, D.J. Adams, C.M. Warsop
                       STFC/RAL/ISIS, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom

 


 

ISIS is the world's most productive pulsed neutron and muon source, at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory in the UK. Operation is centred on a loss-limited 50 Hz proton synchrotron which accelerates 3·1013 protons per pulse from 70 MeV to 800 MeV, delivering a mean beam power of 0.2 MW. Recent upgrade studies at ISIS have centred on a new 180 MeV linac for injection into the existing ring offering the possibility of beam powers in the 0.5 MW regime through reduction in space charge and optimized injection. A central and critical aspect of such an upgrade is the longitudinal dynamics including beam stability, associated RF parameters, space charge levels and stringent requirements on beam loss. This paper outlines possible longitudinal injection schemes for the injection upgrade meeting key design requirements such as minimising halo, bunching factor and satisfying the Keil-Schnell-Boussard (KSB) stability criterion throughout acceleration. Details of simulation models including calculation of KSB are given together with associated assumptions. Latest results from studies to understand and confirm stability limits on ISIS via simulation and experiment are presented.

 






Slides THO1A04 [2.641 MB]
            
 


 




