













HB2012 - Table of Session: FRO1A (Working group summaries)


FRO1A —  Working group summaries   (21-Sep-12   09:00—10:15)
Chair: C. Zhang, IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China


Paper
Title
Page



FRO1A01
Summary of Working Group A: Beam Dynamics in High-Intensity Circular Machines
606


 

E. Métral
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
G. Franchetti
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
J.A. Holmes
                       ORNL, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA

 


 

In this proceeding we summarize the presentations of the HB2012 Workshop session on 'Beam Dynamics in High-Intensity Circular Machines' as well as the outcome of the discussion session. This working group hosted 29 presentations in dedicated sessions plus 5 presentations in a joint session with the working C.

 






Slides FRO1A01 [7.420 MB]
            
 


 



FRO1A02
WG-B: Beam Dynamics In High Intensity Linacs
612


 

D. Raparia
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA
Z. Li
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China
P.A.P. Nghiem
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France

 


 

Emittance coupling, equipartioning and losses were a few topics, which were discussed thoroughly during parallel session for beam dynamics in high intensity linacs (Group B). Linac designs for the future, under construction, upgrade and the existing linacs from around the world were presented in three working sessions. A total of 18 talks were presented. Five presentations are general beam dynamics in nature and twelve talks were project specific. The detail of each contribution can be found in these proceedings. Here we report the summary of the discussions and some concluding remarks of the general interest to all the projects presented in the working group.

 






Slides FRO1A02 [14.464 MB]
            
 


 



FRO1A03
Accelerator System Design, Injection, Extraction and Beam-Material Interaction: Working Group C Summary Report
615


 

N.V. Mokhov
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA
D. Li
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA

 


 

Working Group C summary:The performance of high beam power accelerators is strongly dependent on appropriate injection, acceleration and extraction system designs as well as on the way interactions of the beam with machine components are handled. The experience of the previous ICFA High-Brightness Beam workshops has proven that it is quite beneficial to combine analyses and discussion of these issues in one group, WG-C at this Workshop. A broad range of topics was presented and discussed in twenty talks at four WG-C sessions as well as at two joint WGA/C and WG-B/C sessions. Highlights from these talks, outstanding issues along with plans and proposals for future work are briefly described.

 






Slides FRO1A03 [4.907 MB]
            
 


 




