













HB2014 - Table of Session: THO2AB (Working Group E / AD)


THO2AB —  Working Group E / AD   (13-Nov-14   10:50—12:30)
Chair: F. Marti, FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA


Paper
Title
Page



THO2AB01
ECRIS Developments Towards Intense High Brightness Highly-charged Ion Beams
363


 

L.T. Sun, X. Fang, Y.C. Feng, J.W. Guo, W. Lu, C. Qian, Y. Yang, W.H. Zhang, X.Z. Zhang, H.W. Zhao
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China

 


 

To meet the increasing needs of modern heavy ion accelerators, a ECR ion source must be developed to deliver high intensity high brightness high charge state ion beams, in terms of accelerator output power and beam transmission efficiency. With the success in several laboratories on fully superconducting ECR ion source development, the performance of highly charged heavy ion beams have been greatly enhanced. For instance, U33+ intensity had been doubled in 2011 by VENUS source at LBNL. This paper will present the development work at IMP towards a high performance ECR ion source. Recent high intensity bismuth results will be given, such as 710 eμA Bi30+ with SECRAL source. The first room temperature ECR ion source using evaporative cooling technique will also be reviewed. And the discussion of ECRIS extraction and transmission beam line on ion beam quality will also be presented in this paper.

 






Slides THO2AB01 [4.401 MB]
        
 


 



THO2AB02
The Kicker Impedance and its Effect on the RCS in J-PARC
369


 

Y. Shobuda, P.K. Saha, M. Yamamoto
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-Mura, Naka-Gun, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan
Y.H. Chin, Y. Irie
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
T. Toyama
                       J-PARC, KEK & JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan

 


 

Measurements demonstrate that the kicker impedance dominates along the RCS. Based on a newly developed theory, the impedance is measured by observing the beam-induced voltages at the ends of power cable of the kicker. Toward one mega-watt goal, it is essential to take advantage of tune manipulations and the space charge damping effect. A reduction scheme of the kicker impedance is proposed to pursue the ultimate goal at the RCS.

 






Slides THO2AB02 [9.113 MB]
        
 


 



THO2AB03
Study on Impedance for the Extraction Kicker in CSNS/RCS
 


 

L. Huang, Y.D. Liu, S. Wang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: Supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (11175193, 11275221) # huangls@ihep.ac.cn
The fast extraction kicker system is the main source of impedance in China Spallation Neutron Source Rapid Cycling Synchrotron. Longitudinal and transverse impedance of a fast kicker has been measured for the design and development of the accelerator. The conventional wire method and the improved wire method are employed in the bench measurement.

 






Slides THO2AB03 [2.995 MB]
        
 


 




