













HB2012 - Table of Session: TUO1C (Working Group-E)


TUO1C —  Working Group-E   (18-Sep-12   14:00—16:30)
Chair: R. Dölling, PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland


Paper
Title
Page



TUO1C01
Recent Developments on High Intensity Beam Diagnostics at SNS
292


 

W. Blokland
                       ORNL, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA

 


 

Funding: ORNL/SNS is managed by UT-Battelle, LLC, for the U.S. Department of Energy under contract DE-AC05-00OR22725.
The Spallation Neutron Source Ring accumulates 0.6 μs long proton bunches of up to 1.6·1014 protons with a typical peak current of over 50 A during a 1 ms cycle. To qualify the beam, we perform different transverse profile measurements that can be done at full intensity. The electron beam scanner performs a non-invasive measurement of the transverse and longitudinal profiles of the beam in the ring. Electrons passing over and through the proton beam are deflected and projected on a fluorescent screen. Analysis of the projection yields the transverse profile while multi transverse profiles offset in time yield the longitudinal profile. Progress made with this system will be discussed as well as temperature measurements of the stripping foil and other transverse measurements.

 






Slides TUO1C01 [15.498 MB]
            
 


 



TUO1C02
Online Monitoring System for the Waste Beam in the 3-GeV RCS of J-PARC
297


 

P.K. Saha, H. Harada, S. Hatakeyama, N. Hayashi, H. Hotchi, K. Yamamoto, M. Yoshimoto
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-Mura, Naka-Gun, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan

 


 

We have established two independent methods for monitoring the waste beam of only about 0.4% in the 3 GeV Rapid Cycling Synchrotron of the Japan Proton Accelerator. Although using conventional monitor systems, the measurement technique made it possible for clearly measuring such a waste beam even with significantly low error. One of the method uses a current transformer to measure the waste beam as a whole, while the other one uses a multi-wire profile monitor for clearly measuring beam profiles of both un-stripped and partially stripped components of the waste beam. While the raw signal measured by a CT (current transformer) contains a large noise, an FFT (Fast Fourier Transformation) analysis made it possible to clearly identify the beam signal corresponding to the frequency of the intermediate pulse. The waste beam was measured to be (0.38±0.03)%. Being non destructive, the 1st method is efficiently operating for online monitoring of the waste beam during the RCS user operation so as to directly know the the stripper foil condition and would have great importance for higher power operation.

 






Slides TUO1C02 [2.687 MB]
            
 


 



TUO1C03
The Beam Diagnostics of CSNS
302


 

T.G. Xu, J.N. Bai, C. Chen, L.X. Han, F. Li, P. Li, M. Meng, J.L. Sun, J.M. Tian, A.X. Wang, B. Wang, M.H. Xu, Zh.H. Xu, X.Y. Yang, L. Zeng
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

CSNS project is in the construction stage. The overview of CSNS beam diagnostics is presented which includes linac, RCS and both transport beam line. also some predevelopment of CSNS beam diagnostics is presented.

 






Slides TUO1C03 [8.366 MB]
            
 


 



TUO1C04
Detection of Unidentified Falling Objects at LHC
305


 

E. Nebot Del Busto, T. Baer, F.V. Day, B. Dehning, E.B. Holzer, A. Lechner, R. Schmidt, J. Wenninger, C. Zamantzas, M. Zerlauth, F. Zimmermann
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
M. Hempel
                       BTU, Cottbus, Germany

 


 

About 3600 Ionization Chambers are located around the LHC ring to detect beam losses that could damage the equipment or quench superconducting magnets. The BLMs integrate the losses in 12 different time intervals (from 40 μs to 83.8 s) allowing for different abort thresholds depending on the duration of the loss and the beam energy. The signals are also recorded in a database at 1 Hz for offline analysis. Since the 2010 run, a limiting factor in the machine availability occurred due to unforeseen sudden losses appearing around the ring on the ms time scale. Those were detected exclusively by the BLM system and they are the result of the interaction of macro-particles, of sizes estimated to be 1-100 microns, with the proton beams. In this document we describe the techniques employed to identify such events as well as the mitigations implemented in the BLM system to avoid unnecessary LHC downtime.

 






Slides TUO1C04 [6.812 MB]
            
 


 



TUO1C05
Measurements and Interpretation of the Betatron Tune Spectra of High Intensity Bunched Beam at SIS-18
310


 

R. Singh, O. Chorniy, P. Forck, R. Haseitl, W. Kaufmann, P. Kowina, K. Lang
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
O. Boine-Frankenheim, R. Singh, T. Weiland
                       TEMF, TU Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

The paper presents the status of the transverse tune measurements in the synchrotron SIS18 at GSI. Presently, there are two systems for tune measurements in operation in the SIS18, namely TOPOS (Tune, Orbit and POsition measurement System) and BBQ (Base Band tune measurement system). The first one is a digital system where the BPM signal is digitized and the bunch position is calculated numerically. The second system is an analog system, where the transverse bunch motion is detected using peak detector. Band limited noise and chirp excitations were used to excite the betatron oscillations. Measurements of the betatron tune spectra were done at injection energy at medium and high intensities. In the frequency spectra a number of peaks around the position of betatron tune were seen. The peaks can be attributed to different bunch head-tail modes which were observed in time domain. These modes were dependent on the beam intensity. In this paper we compare the tune spectra measured at high beam intensity with the theoretical model for the space charge affected head-tail modes.

 






Slides TUO1C05 [1.315 MB]
            
 


 



TUO1C06
Instrumentation Developments and Beam Studies for the Fermilab Proton Improvement Plan Linac Upgrade and New RFQ Front-End
315


 

V.E. Scarpine, D.S. Bollinger, K.L. Duel, N. Eddy, P.R. Karns, N. Liu, W. Pellico, A. Semenov, C.-Y. Tan, R.E. Tomlin
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy under contract No. DE-AC02-07CH11359.
Fermilab is developing a Proton Improvement Plan (PIP) to increase throughput of it's the proton source. The plan addresses hardware modifications to increase repetition rate and improve beam loss while ensuring viable operation of the proton source through 2025. The first phase of the PIP will enable the Fermilab proton source to deliver 1.8·1017 protons per hour by mid-2013. As part of this initial upgrade, Fermilab plans to install a new front-end consisting of dual H− ion sources and a 201 MHz pulsed RFQ. This talk will present beam studies measurements of this new front-end as well as present new beam instrumentation upgrades for the Fermilab linac.

 






Slides TUO1C06 [2.546 MB]
            
 


 




