













HB2012 - Table of Session: WEO1C (Working Group-A)


WEO1C —  Working Group-A   (19-Sep-12   14:00—16:30)
Chair: J.A. Holmes, ORNL, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA


Paper
Title
Page



WEO1C01
Effect of Self-consistency on Periodic Resonance Crossing
429


 

G. Franchetti
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

In high intensity bunched beams resonance crossing gives rise to emittance growth and beam loss. Both these effects build up after many synchrotron oscillations. Up to now long term modeling have relied on frozen models neglecting the physics of self-consistency. We address here this issue and present the state of the art of simulations also applied to the SIS100.

 






Slides WEO1C01 [3.657 MB]
            
 


 



WEO1C02
Simulation and Measurement of Half Integer Resonance in Coasting Beams in the ISIS Ring
434


 

C.M. Warsop, D.J. Adams, B. Jones, S.J. Payne, B.G. Pine, H. V. Smith, R.E. Williamson
                       STFC/RAL/ISIS, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom

 


 

ISIS is the spallation neutron source at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory in the UK. Operation centres on a high intensity proton synchrotron, accelerating 3·1013 ppp from 70-800 MeV, at a repetition rate of 50 Hz. Present studies are looking at key aspects of high intensity behaviour with a view to increasing operational intensity, identifying optimal upgrade routes and understanding loss mechanisms. Of particular interest is the space charge limit imposed by half integer resonance: we present results from coasting beam experiments with the ISIS ring in storage ring mode, along with detailed 3D (ORBIT) simulations to help interpret observations. The methods for experimentally approaching resonance, and the implications on beam behaviour, measurement and interpretation are discussed. In addition, results from simpler 2D simulations and analytical models are used to help interpret expected beam loss and halo evolution. Plans and challenges for the measurement and understanding of this important beam loss mechanism are summarised, as are some closely related areas of high intensity work on ISIS.

 






Slides WEO1C02 [2.224 MB]
            
 


 



WEO1C03
Longitudinal Beam Loss Studies of the CERN PS-to-SPS Transfer
439


 

H. Timko, T. Argyropoulos, T. Bohl, H. Damerau, J.F. Esteban Müller, S. Hancock, E.N. Shaposhnikova
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Bunch-to-bucket transfer between the Proton Synchrotron (PS) and the Super Proton Synchrotron (SPS) is required before beams can enter the Large Hadron Collider. The overall beam loss at this transfer is currently around 5-10 %, and is increased for higher intensities or larger longitudinal emittances. Previous attempts to reduce the losses with additional RF voltage from spare cavities in the PS were unsuccessful. In this paper, we modelled the complete PS flat-top bunch splitting and rotation manipulations, PS-to-SPS transfer, SPS flat bottom and acceleration ramp using end-to-end simulations. Starting from the measured bunch distributions, the simulations provide an accurate insight into the problem and allow direct benchmarking with experiments. As a result, it was understood and confirmed by measurements that shorter bunches do not necessarily lead to better transmission. The particle distribution in longitudinal phase space at PS extraction should be optimised instead. A significant loss reduction of up to 50 % is expected from simulations; experimental studies are on-going to verify these theoretical findings.

 






Slides WEO1C03 [3.903 MB]
            
 


 



WEO1C04
Acceleration of High-Intensity Protons in the J-PARC Synchrotrons
444


 

M. Yoshii
                       KEK/JAEA, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan

 


 

The J-PARC consisting of the 181 MeV Linac, the 3GeV rapid cycling synchrotron (RCS) and the 50 GeV main synchrotron (MR), is the first high intensity proton synchrotron facility to use the high field gradient magnetic alloy (MA) loaded accelerating cavity. MA is a low-Q material. However, because of the high permeability and the high saturation magnetic flux density, the MA cores are the only materials to realize the required gradient. The MA loaded cavity can be considered as a stable passive load. No tuning control is necessary. 11 RF systems are installed in the RCS, and 8 RF systems in the MR. In addition, the RCS RF systems are operated in a dual harmonic mode to perform the acceleration and the longitudinal manipulation of the high intensity beam in the RCS available space. Beam loading compensation is an important issue. The feed-forward method using the RF beam signals from the wall current monitor has been established. The J-PARC synchrotrons realize stable, reproducible and clean acceleration of high intensity protons. A transition-free lattice and a precise digital timing system asynchronous to the AC-line are the distinctive features, which enable this achievement.

 






Slides WEO1C04 [3.861 MB]
            
 


 



WEO1C05
Longitudinal Space Charge Phenomena in an Intense Beam in a Ring
447


 

R.A. Kishek, B.L. Beaudoin, D.W. Feldman, I. Haber, T.W. Koeth, Y. Mo
                       UMD, College Park, Maryland, USA

 


 

Funding: Supported by the US Dept. of Energy, Offices of High Energy Physics and Fusion Energy Sciences, and by the US Dept. of Defense, Office of Naval Research and the Joint Technology Office.
The University of Maryland Electron Ring (UMER) uses nonrelativistic, high-current electron beams to access the intense space charge dynamics applicable to hadron beams. The UMER beam parameters correspond to space charge incoherent tune shifts, at injection, in the range of 1-5.5 integers. Longitudinal induction focusing is used to counteract the space charge force at the edges of a long rectangular bunch, confining the beam for 100s of turns. We report on two recent findings: (1) The formation and propagation of solitons from large amplitude longitudinal perturbations, observed experimentally and reproduced in WARP* simulations. (2) The evolution of a longitudinal multi-streaming instability when the space-charge force is allowed to lengthen the bunch ends. The expanding bunch ends fill the ring, interpenetrate, and wrap repeatedly, forming multiple streams at any one location, each with its unique velocity. The resulting multi-stream instability is investigated over a wide range of beam currents and initial pulse lengths, and experimental observations are in good agreement with WARP simulations and an analytical theory that successfully predicts the onset of the instability.
* D.P. Grote, A. Friedman, I. Haber, S. Yu, Fus. Eng. & Des. 32-33, 193-200 (1996).

 






Slides WEO1C05 [5.868 MB]
            
 


 



WEO1C06
Measurement and Simulation of Luminosity Leveling in LHC via Beam Separation
451


 

S. Paret, J. Qiang
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA
R. Alemany-Fernandez, R. Calaga, R. Giachino, W. Herr, D. Jacquet, G. Papotti, T. Pieloni, L. Ponce, M. Schaumann
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
R. Miyamoto
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden

 


 

Funding: This work supported by the US LHC Accelerator Research Program and the National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center of the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract No. DE-AC02-05CH11231.
Leveling of the luminosity in LHC by means of separating the beams colliding at an interaction point is examined. An experiment in which the separation of the beams was stepwise increased to up to 2.5 times the beam width is presented. The luminosity at all IPs and emittance of the beams were measured to detect possible side effects of the collision with an offset. Strong-strong simulations that closely follow the experimental setup are discussed and compared with the measurements. Finally, potential alternatives for luminosity leveling are briefly described.

 






Slides WEO1C06 [1.031 MB]
            
 


 




