













HB2012 - Table of Session: TUO1B (Working Group-A&C)


TUO1B —  Working Group-A&C   (18-Sep-12   10:50—12:30)
Chair: H.W. Zhao, IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China


Paper
Title
Page



TUO1B01
Beam Loss Due to Foil Scattering in the SNS Accumulator Ring
254


 

J.A. Holmes, M.A. Plum
                       ORNL, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA

 


 

Funding: ORNL/SNS is managed by UT-Battelle, LLC, for the U.S. Department of Energy under contract DE-AC05-00OR22725.
The Spallation Neutron Source is now operating in production mode at about 1 MW of beam power on target, which corresponds to more than 1014 protons per pulse at 60 Hz with energies exceeding 900 MeV. Although overall beam losses in production tune are low, the highest losses in the entire machine occur in the region downstream of the ring injection stripper foil. In order to better understand the contribution of scattering from the primary stripper foil to losses in the SNS ring, we have carried out calculations using the ORBIT Code aimed at evaluating these losses. These calculations indicate that the probability of beam loss within one turn following a foil hit is ~1.7·10-8*T, where T is the foil thickness in g/cm2, assuming a carbon foil. Thus, for a stripper foil of thickness T = 390 g/cm2, the probability of loss within one turn of a foil hit is ~6.7·10-6. This paper describes the calculations used to arrive at this result, presents the distribution of these losses around the SNS ring, and compares the the calculated loss distribution with that observed experimentally.

 






Slides TUO1B01 [2.174 MB]
            
 


 



TUO1B02
Injection Design for Fermilab Project X
259


 

D.E. Johnson, C.-Y. Tan, Z. Tang
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Fermilab is proposing a staged approach for Project X, a high power proton accelerator system. The first stage of this project will be to construct a 1 GeV CW H− superconducting linear accelerator to inject into the existing 8 GeV Booster synchrotron ultimately providing in excess of 1 MW beam power for the Neutrino program out of the Main Injector. We will discuss the current project plans for injection into the Booster and related issues.

 






Slides TUO1B02 [1.380 MB]
            
 


 



TUO1B03
Study of Intense Beam Injection and Extraction of Heavy Ion Synchrotron
 


 

Y.J. Yuan, W.P. Chai, J. Li, P. Li, R.S. Mao, J.W. Xia, J.C. Yang, X.D. Yang, H.W. Zhao
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China

 


 

Experiments for physics research of RIB demands adequate particles stored and accelerated during limited experiment period. For Heavy Ion Research Facility at Lanzhou (HIRFL), the intensity of beam from injector cyclotrons is weak compared to Linac injectors, especially for heavy nuclei. The study to obtain intense heavy ion beam at HIRFL-CSRm synchrotron is presented here. The accelerated intense heavy ion beam is extracted by single turn extraction to hit the RIB production target or directly be transferred to HIRFL-CSRe experimental storage ring, or by 1/3 resonant slow extracted for external target experiments. The up to 10,000 s long period slow extraction is realized.

 






Slides TUO1B03 [11.075 MB]
            
 


 



TUO1B04
Beam Loss Control for the Fermilab Main Injector
264


 

B.C. Brown
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: Operated by Fermi Research Alliance, LLC under Contract No. DE-AC02-07CH11359 with the United States Department of Energy.
From 2005 through 2012, the Fermilab Main Injector provided intense beams of 120 GeV protons to produce neutrino beams and antiprotons. Hardware improvements in conjunction with improved diagnostics allowed the system to reach sustained operation at ~400 kW beam power. Losses were at or near the 8 GeV injection energy where 95\% beam transmission results in about 1.5 kW of beam loss. By minimizing and localizing loss, residual radiation levels fell while beam power was doubled. Lost beam was directed to either the collimation system or to the beam abort. Critical apertures were increased while improved instrumentation allowed optimal use of available apertures. We will summarize the impact of various loss control tools and the status and trends in residual radiation in the Main Injector.

 






Slides TUO1B04 [1.356 MB]
            
 


 



TUO1B05
The Design and Commissioning of the Accelerator System of the Rare Isotope Reaccelerator - ReA3 at Michigan State University
269


 

X. Wu, B. Arend, C. Compton, A. Facco, M.J. Johnson, D. Lawton, D. Leitner, F. Montes, S. Nash, J. Ottarson, G. Perdikakis, J. Popielarski, J.A. Rodriguez, M.J. Syphers, W. Wittmer, Q. Zhao
                       NSCL, East Lansing, Michigan, USA

 


 

Funding: This material is based upon work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Sciences under Cooperative Agreement DE-SC0000661
The National Superconducting Cyclotron Laboratory (NSCL) at Michigan State University (MSU) is currently constructing its new rare isotope reaccelerator facility: ReA3, which will provide unique low-energy rare isotope beams by stopping fast rare isotopes in gas stopping systems, boosting the charge state in an Electron Beam Ion Trap (EBIT) and reaccelerating them in a superconducting linac. The rare isotope beams will be producted intially by Coupled Cyclotron Facility (CCF) at NSCL and later by Facility for Rare Isotope Beams (FRIB), currently being designed and constructed at MSU. The accelerator system consists of a Low Energy Beam Transport (LEBT), a room temperature RFQ and a linac utilizing superconducting QWRs. An achromatic High Energy Beam Transport (HEBT) will deliver the reaccelerated beams to the mutiple target stations. Beams from ReA3 will range from 3 MeV/u for heavy nuclei such as uranium to about 6 MeV/u for ions with A<50. The commissioning of the EBIT, RFQ and two cryomodules of the linac is currently underway. The ReA3 accelerator system design and status of commissioning will be presented.

 






Slides TUO1B05 [6.046 MB]
            
 


 




