













HB2014 - Table of Session: THO2LR (Working Group B)


THO2LR —  Working Group B   (13-Nov-14   10:50—12:30)
Chair: I. Hofmann, GSI, Darmstadt, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



THO2LR01
H− Beam Optics for the Laser Stripping Project
350


 

T.V. Gorlov, A.V. Aleksandrov, S.M. Cousineau, V.V. Danilov, M.A. Plum
                       ORNL, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA

 


 

Successful realization of the laser stripping experiment depends mainly on correct tailoring of H− bunch and laser beam. H− beam preparation is a challenging task that requires to tune up about 10 parameters simultaneously in situ and taking into account life state of accelerator. This makes a huge technological difference compared to the foil stripping method. In this paper we present experience and methods of tuning the H− bunch.

 


 



THO2LR02
Beam Dynamics and Experiment of CPHS Linac
355


 

L. Du, C.T. Du, X. Guan, C.-X. Tang, R. Tang, X.W. Wang, Q.Z. Xing, S.X. Zheng
                       TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China
M.W. Wang
                       Tsinghua University, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: Work supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (Major Research Plan Grant No. 91126003 and 11175096)
We present, in this paper, the present beam dynamics simulation results and experiments of the 3 MeV high current proton linac for the Compact Pulsed Hadron Source (CPHS) at Tsinghua University. The beam dynamics simulations of the recent status of the linac have been done, which helps the operation. Facility used for 2D beam profile measurement which is based on the CT algorithm with rotatable multi-wires, is under development. Some other experiments such as beam position measurement will also be introduced below.

 






Slides THO2LR02 [3.479 MB]
        
 


 



THO2LR03
Beam Halo Control Study on the ADS Superconducting Linac Design at IHEP
 


 

F. Yan, H. Geng, C. Meng, S. Pei, J.Y. Tang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China
Z. Li
                       SCU, Chengdu, People's Republic of China

 


 

The Accelerator Driven sub-critical System (ADS) has an extremely low beam loss rate demand for the driver linac because of the high power intensity needed to be transferred to the target. China ADS project is proposed to build a 15 MW proton linac with final energy of 1.5 GeV and an average beam current of 10 mA. Fulfilling the 1 W/m power losses restriction along the whole linac posed a very high requirement on the stability of the driver linac design. Most of the beam losses in this level associated with the halo particles. In the design stage of China ADS linac, the beam halo are controlled in several aspects according to the halo formation mechanisms. Reasonable designs have been achieved for the China ADS Injector-I with few percentage of normalized rms emittances. Extensive error analysis were carried out to test the stability of the Injector-I design. The design considerations, the results of an optimized design and the beam dynamic simulations including machine errors are introduced and presented in detail.

 






Slides THO2LR03 [3.023 MB]
        
 


 



THO2LR04
Catalogue of Losses for the Linear IFMIF Prototype Accelerator
360


 

N. Chauvin, P.A.P. Nghiem
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France
M. Comunian
                       INFN/LNL, Legnaro (PD), Italy
C. Oliver
                       CIEMAT, Madrid, Spain
D. Uriot
                       CEA/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France

 


 

One major activity of the EVEDA (Engineering Validation and Engineering Design Activities) phase of the IFMIF (International Fusion Materials Irradiation Facility) project consists in building, testing and operating, in Japan, a 125 mA/9 MeV deuteron accelerator, called LIPAc, which has been developed in Europe. For the accelerator safety aspects, a precise knowledge of beam loss location and power deposition is crucial, especially for a high intensity, high power accelerator like LIPAc. This paper presents the beam dynamics simulations allowing to estimate beam losses in different situations of the accelerator lifetime: starting from scratch, beam commissioning, tuning or exploration, routine operation, sudden failure. Some results of these studies are given and commented on. Recommendations for hot point protection, beam stop velocity, beam power limitation are given accordingly.

 






Slides THO2LR04 [2.790 MB]
        
 


 




