













HB2014 - Table of Session: TUO1LR (Working Group B)


TUO1LR —  Working Group B   (11-Nov-14   08:40—10:20)
Chair: I. Hofmann, GSI, Darmstadt, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



TUO1LR01
Multi-Charge-State Beam Dynamics in FRIB
 


 

Q. Zhao
                       FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science under Cooperative Agreement DE-SC0000661
The Facility for Rare Isotope Beams (FRIB) is a new generation national user facility for nuclear science under establishment at the Michigan State University. The cw superconducting driver linac will accelerate all stable isotopes (from protons to uranium) to energies above 200 MeV/u with a beam power of up to 400 kW. To meet the output beam power requirements for ions heavier than xenon, two charge states will be selected from an ECR ion source and accelerated simultaneously in every other rf bucket through RFQ and Segment 1. After the acceleration in Segment 1 up to 20 Mev/u, a charge stripper is used to boost charge states for heavy ions and thus increase the acceleration efficiency for the rest of the linac. Multiple charge states (up to 5 depending on ions) will also be selected after stripper and further accelerated in Segment 2 and Segment 3 in the same rf bucket before delivery to a target. Beam dynamics associated with simultaneous acceleration/transport of multi-charge-state ions in the high power machine will be reported.

 






Slides TUO1LR01 [2.749 MB]
        
 


 



TUO1LR02
The Design and Beam Dynamics Study for CSNS Linac
 


 

H.C. Liu, S. Fu, J. Peng, S. Wang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

The China Spallation Neutron Source (CSNS) linac consists of a 50 keV H− ion source, a 3 MeV RFQ, and an 80 MeV alvarez type DTL. It provides an H− beam of 15 mA peak current with a pulsed beam width about 420 μs and a repetition rate of 25 Hz for injection into the following 1.6 GeV rapid-cycling synchrotron (RCS). The transverse and longitudinal beam optics is introduced. The original design scheme is optimized based on the end-to-end simulation. Besides beam dynamics, the commissioning plan for linac is also presented, including the commissioning correlated parameters, beam instrumentation used in commissioning, the goal at different commissioning stages.

 






Slides TUO1LR02 [6.961 MB]
        
 


 



TUO1LR03
ESS Linac Design and Cost Optimization as Function of Beam Dynamics
 


 

M. Eshraqi
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden

 


 

The energy and power of accelerators used for research are growing to meet the demand of experiments. These increases are usually translated to costlier accelerators and bigger facilities. However, proper handling of beam power in the megawatt range requires a robust design that respects the known rules of thumb in accelerator design to limit the losses at a challenging level of less than one part in million. Traditionally cost increases with power and quality of the accelerator and beam. In this paper, using the ESS linac as an example, this tradition is challenged and ways to reduce the cost while neither quality nor power are compromised are presented.

 






Slides TUO1LR03 [7.327 MB]
        
 


 




