













HB2014 - Table of Session: TUO2LR (Working Group C)


TUO2LR —  Working Group C   (11-Nov-14   10:50—12:30)
Chair: S.M. Lund, FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA


Paper
Title
Page



TUO2LR01
Needs and Considerations for a Consortium of Accelerator Modeling
175


 

J.-L. Vay, J. Qiang
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA
J.F. Amundson, E.G. Stern
                       Fermilab, Batavia, Illinois, USA
Z. Li, C.-K. Ng
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Funding: This work is supported by US-DOE Contracts DE-AC02-05CH11231.
Thanks to sustained advances in hardware and software technologies, computer modeling is playing an increasingly important role in the design of particle accelerators. This rise in importance is further fueled by the economic pressure for reducing uncertainties and costs of development, construction and commissioning, thus pushing the field toward an increased use of “virtual prototyping”. Until now, the development of accelerator codes has been left to projects without mandate and programmatic funding for coordination, distribution and user support. While this is adequate for the development of relatively small-scale codes on targeted applications, a more coordinated approach is needed to enable general codes with user bases that extend beyond individual projects, as well as cross-cutting activities. In light of this, it is desirable to strengthen and coordinate programmatic activities of particle accelerator modeling within the accelerator community. This increased focus on computational activities is all the more timely as computer architectures are transitioning to new technologies that require the adaptation of existing - and emergence of new - algorithms and codes.

 






Slides TUO2LR01 [2.509 MB]
        
 


 



TUO2LR02
Development for End-to-end Modeling of Accelerators
 


 

J. Qiang
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA

 


 

Funding: This work was partially supported by the U. S. Department of Energy under contract No. DE-AC02- 05CH11231.
In this paper, we will report on the progress of development for end-to-end modeling of accelerators. We will discuss about some challenges in the study and suggest some potential solutions.

 






Slides TUO2LR02 [1.653 MB]
        
 


 



TUO2LR03
Recent Results from the S-POD Trap Systems on the Stability of Intense Hadron Beams
178


 

H. Okamoto, K. Fukushima, K. Ito, T. Okano
                       HU/AdSM, Higashi-Hiroshima, Japan

 


 

S-POD (Simulator of Particle Orbit Dynamics) is a tabletop experimental apparatus developed at Hiroshima University for systematic studies of various beam dynamic effects in modern particle accelerators. This novel experiment is based on an isomorphism between the basic equations governing the collective motion of a non-neutral plasma in a trap and that of a charged-particle beam in an alternating-gradient (AG) focusing channel. The system is particularly useful in exploring space-charge-induced collective phenomena whose accurate study is often troublesome in practice or quite time-consuming even with high-performance computers. The present talk addresses recent experimental results on the stability of intense hadron beams traveling through long periodic AG transport channels. Emphasis is placed upon coherent resonances that occur depending on the lattice design, beam intensity, error fields, etc.

 






Slides TUO2LR03 [10.864 MB]
        
 


 




