













HB2012 - Table of Session: WEO1B (Working Group-A)


WEO1B —  Working Group-A   (19-Sep-12   10:50—12:30)
Chair: E. Métral, CERN, Geneva, Switzerland


Paper
Title
Page



WEO1B01
Low Gamma Transition Optics for the SPS: Simulation and Experimental Results for High Brightness Beams
381


 

H. Bartosik, G. Arduini, T. Argyropoulos, T. Bohl, K. Cornelis, J.F. Esteban Müller, K.S.B. Li, Y. Papaphilippou, G. Rumolo, B. Salvant, F. Schmidt, E.N. Shaposhnikova, H. Timko
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
A.Y. Molodozhentsev
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

The single bunch transverse mode coupling instability (TMCI) at injection is presently one of the main intensity limitation for LHC beams in the SPS. A new optics for the SPS with lower transition energy yields an almost 3-fold increase of the slip factor at injection energy and thus a significantly higher TMCI threshold, as demonstrated both in simulations and in experimental studies. It is observed furthermore that the low gamma transition optics yields better longitudinal stability throughout the entire acceleration cycle. In addition, simulations predict a higher threshold for the electron cloud driven single bunch instability, which might become an important limitation for high intensity LHC beams with the nominal 25 ns bunch spacing. This contribution gives a summary of the experimental and simulation studies, addressing also space charge effects and the achievable brightness with high intensity single bunch beams.

 


 



WEO1B02
Optics Design Optimization for IBS Dominated Beams
386


 

F. Antoniou, H. Bartosik, Y. Papaphilippou
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
T. Demma
                       LAL, Orsay, France
N. Milas, A. Streun
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland
M.T.F. Pivi
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Intra-beam scattering is a small angle multiple Coulomb scattering effect, leading to emittance growth. It becomes important for high brightness beams in low emittance lepton rings, but also hadron synchrotrons and ring colliders. Several theoretical models have been developed over the years, however, when the IBS becomes predominant, the divergence between the models becomes important. In addition, the theoretical models are based on the consideration of Gaussian beams and uncoupled transverse motion. Recently, two multi-particle tracking codes have been developed, in order to enable the understanding of the IBS influence on the beam distribution and the inclusion of coupling. The comparison between theoretical models in different lattices and different regimes is discussed here and the benchmarking of the theoretical models with the tracking codes is presented. Finally, first measurement results are presented in low emittance rings and hadron synchrotrons.

 






Slides WEO1B02 [2.389 MB]
            
 


 



WEO1B03
Circular Modes for Flat Beams in LHC
391


 

A.V. Burov
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Benefits and problems for operation with flat beams are discussed.

 






Slides WEO1B03 [0.192 MB]
            
 


 



WEO1B04
On Scaling Properties of Third-order Resonance Crossing in Particle Accelerators
394


 

S.-Y. Lee
                       Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana, USA
K.Y. Ng
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the US DOE under contract DEFG02-92ER40747, DE-AC02-07CH11359, and the NSF under contract PHY-0852368 with NSF.
The effects of resonances on high power hadron accelerators are explored. These resonances include systematic space-charge resonances, third-order resonance, and other weak random resonances that are often present in FFAG and other RCS accelerators. The distortion of invariant torus during resonance crossing is used to set limit on emittance growth or fraction of particle trapped. The critical resonance strength in the ring lattice is determined from a simple scaling law derived as a function of the tune-ramp rate and initial emittance. Such scaling law can be useful in the evaluation of the performance in high power accelerators.

 






Slides WEO1B04 [1.074 MB]
            
 


 



WEO1B05
PTC-Orbit Studies for the CERN LHC Injectors Upgrade Project
399


 

A.Y. Molodozhentsev, E. Forest
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
G. Arduini, H. Bartosik, E. Benedetto, C. Carli, M. Fitterer, V. Forte, S.S. Gilardoni, M. Martini, N. Mounet, E. Métral, F. Schmidt, R. Wasef
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The future improvement of the beam brilliance and intensities required in the frame of the LIU (LHC Injectors Upgrade) project to reach the demands of the HL-LHC (High-Luminosity LHC) project triggered a comprehensive study of the combined effects of the space charge and the machine resonances for the CERN synchrotrons, which are the injector chain for LHC. In frame of this report we will summarize new features of the PTC-ORBIT code which allow the beam dynamics modeling in the LHC injectors taking into account the time variation of the machine parameters during the injection process. The measurements, obtained during recent MD companies, and simulations for the low-energy high-intensity beams, will be discussed.

 






Slides WEO1B05 [3.063 MB]
            
 


 




