













HB2012 - Table of Session: THO3B (Working Group-C)


THO3B —  Working Group-C   (20-Sep-12   10:50—12:30)
Chair: D. Li, LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA


Paper
Title
Page



THO3B01
Proton Beam Inter-Bunch Extinction and Extinction Monitoring for the Mu2e Experiment
532


 

E. Prebys
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: U.S. Department of Energy
The goal of the Mu2e experiment at Fermilab will be the search for the conversion of a muon into an electron in the field of a nucleus, with a precision roughly four orders of magnitude better than the current limit. The experiment requires a beam consisting of short (~200 ns FW) bunches of protons are separated by roughly 1.5 microseconds. Because the most significant backgrounds are prompt with respect to the arrival of the protons, out of time beam must be suppressed at a level of at least 10-10 relative to in time beam. The removal of out of time beam is known as "extinction". This talk will discuss the likely sources of out of time beam and the steps we plan to take to remove it. In addition, the plan for monitoring the extinction level will be presented.

 






Slides THO3B01 [6.380 MB]
            
 


 



THO3B02
SRF Technology Challenge and Development
536


 

A. Facco
                       INFN/LNL, Legnaro (PD), Italy
A. Facco
                       FRIB, East Lansing, USA

 


 

SRF technology in particle accelerators is in continuous evolution, providing a large variety of high gradient- low loss resonators with large apertures, suitable for many different beam current and energy regimes. Recent development was aiming not only at highest gradient and Q but also at improving field quality, reliability and cost reduction for large production. The SRF R&D effort, once concentrated mostly in the high energy electron machines, is increasingly focused to heavy ion linacs, energy recovery linacs and also to cavities for special applications. A concise overview of the present state of the art will be given.

 






Slides THO3B02 [1.712 MB]
            
 


 



THO3B03
SRF Cavity Research for Project X
541


 

R.D. Kephart
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Project X is a new SRF linac based multi-MW class proton source proposed for construction at Fermilab. It consists of a 3 MW, 1 mA CW H− SRF linac that feeds an intensity frontier Physics program and a 3-8 GeV pulsed linac that accelerates ~5% of the output of the CW linac to 8 GeV for injection into the Fermilab Main Injector synchrotron resulting in an additional 2 MW of beam power at 60-120 GeV in support of a world class long baseline neutrino program. The project has chosen operating frequencies that are sub-harmonics of 1.3 GHz and is developing 6 separate cavity designs for acceleration of H− particles with various velocities. An R&D program is in progress to develop these cavities; the associated cryomodules; and the required fabrication and test infrastructure. A status and progress report on this R&D program will be presented.

 






Slides THO3B03 [4.034 MB]
            
 


 



THO3B04
Beam Dynamics Studies of H− Beam Chopping in a LEBT for Project X
546


 

Q. Ji, D.P. Grote, A.R. Lambert, D. Li, T. Schenkel, J.W. Staples
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA

 


 

Funding: This work is supported by the Office of Science, United States Department of Energy under DOE contract DE-AC02-05CH11231.
Project X is proposed as a high intensity proton facility at Fermilab to support a world-leading program in neutrino and flavor physics over the next several decades. The front-end consists of an H− ion source, low-energy beam transport (LEBT), and 162.5 MHz CW Radio-Frequency-Quadrupole (RFQ) accelerator. The LEBT design, currently under study at LBNL, would comprise two solenoids, a dipole magnet and a chopper. The LEBT chopper is designed to achieve 1 MHz beam chopping of a partially neutralized 30 keV, 5 mA H− beam. Preliminary simulation studies show that chopping the beam before the second solenoid is more efficient in terms of chopper bias voltages. However, the space charge neutralization will be lost along the beam after the chopper and through the second solenoid. A beam dynamics study, using WARP 3D (a Particle-in-cell simulation code), has been carried out to investigate both the time-dependence of the partial neutralization in the segment after the chopper, as well as the beam stability and emittance growth. Benchmark experiments are ongoing and simulation and experimental results will be presented in this Workshop.

 






Slides THO3B04 [1.868 MB]
            
 


 



THO3B05
Intense High Charge State Heavy Ion Beam Production for the Advanced Accelerators
550


 

L.T. Sun
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China

 


 

Modern advanced heavy ion beam accelerators have strong needs for either dc or pulsed intense high charge state heavy ion beams, such as dc beams for FRIB project, SPIRAL2 project, HIRFL/IMP facility, RIBF/RIKEN facility ect, and pulsed beams for RHIC, LHC, FAIR project. After decades' development, only several typical ion sources have found their applications in these accelerators, i.e. ECR ion source, EBIS and LIS or Laser Ion Source. This paper will give a general review of the advantages and limitations of the three types of ion sources. The latest development and performance for the three types of ion sources will be presented.

 






Slides THO3B05 [2.464 MB]
            
 


 




