













HB2012 - Table of Session: MOI1C (Invited Plenary - Session C)


MOI1C —  Invited Plenary - Session C   (17-Sep-12   14:30—16:15)
Chair: W. Chou, Fermilab, Batavia, USA


Paper
Title
Page



MOI1C01
Intense-beam Issues in CSNS and C-ADS Accelerators
25


 

S. Fu, S.X. Fang, Z. Li, J. Peng, J.Y. Tang, S. Wang, F. Yan
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

In 2011 construction of two intense-beam accelerators were launched for China Spallation Neutron Source (CSNS) project and China Accelerator Driven System (C-ADS) project. CSNS uses a pulsed accelerator with an H− linac and a rapid cycling synchrotron, and C-ADS has a CW proton linac with superconducting cavities. In both cases, the beam power is high and beam loss control is a key issue in beam dynamics. Beam emittance growth and beam halo formation must be carefully studied in beam dynamics and well controlled in machine design. This paper will present a brief introduction to the physics design of the two intense-beam accelerators, especially on the issue of beam instability. In their linac design equapartitioning focusing scheme is adopted to avoid coupling instability. Some beam halo formation experimental results due to mismatching will be compared with simulations. Beam halo generation due to the quench of superconducting cavity and magnet is investigated in detail and compensation scheme is also proposed. Beam loss study for the error effects and orbit correction will be presented.

 






Slides MOI1C01 [3.747 MB]
            
 


 



MOI1C02
Challenges in Benchmarking of Simulation Codes against Real High Intensity Accelerators
30


 

I. Hofmann
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

Benchmarking of simulation codes for linear or circular accelerators involves several levels of complexity, which will be revisited and discussed in this talk. As ultimate goal of benchmarking it is hoped that a predictive capacity and a practical control over emittance growth and/or beam loss can be obtained. We first give some examples of how simulation codes can be used to gain as much understanding of the underlying physics mechanisms as possible, which is an almost inevitable first step. With more and more experimental data from running high intensity accelerators having become available in recent years more questions need to be raised: Besides the proper physics, can we feed our codes with an accurate enough model of the real machine? What actually is the required accuracy, and does a specific accelerator have enough diagnostics to enable this accuracy? In the paper we explore these questions by discussing several examples of benchmarking efforts, their achievements as well as the limits and difficulties that have been encountered.

 






Slides MOI1C02 [2.838 MB]
            
 


 



MOI1C03
Beam Loss Mechanisms in High Intensity Linacs
36


 

M.A. Plum
                       ORNL, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA

 


 

Funding: ORNL/SNS is managed by UT-Battelle, LLC, for the U.S. Department of Energy under contract DE-AC05-00OR22725.
Beam loss is a critical issue in high intensity linacs, and much work is done during both the design and operation phases to keep the loss down to manageable levels. Linacs for H− ion beams have many more loss mechanisms compared to H+ (proton) linacs. Interesting H− beam loss mechanisms include residual gas stripping, H+ capture and acceleration, field stripping, and intra-beam stripping (IBSt). Beam halo formation, and ion source or RF turn on/off transients, are examples of beam loss mechanisms that are common for both H+ and H− accelerators. The IBSt mechanism has recently been characterized at the Oak Ridge Spallation Neutron Source, and we have found that it accounts for most of the loss in the superconducting linac. In this paper we will detail the IBSt measurements, and also discuss the other beam loss mechanisms that are important for high intensity linacs.

 






Slides MOI1C03 [5.588 MB]
            
 


 




