













HB2014 - Table of Session: TUO1AB (Working Group D)


TUO1AB —  Working Group D   (11-Nov-14   08:40—10:20)
Chair: S.S. Gilardoni, CERN, Geneva, Switzerland


Paper
Title
Page



TUO1AB01
High Gradient RF System for Upgrade of J-PARC
162


 

C. Ohmori, K. Hara, K. Hasegawa, M. Toda, M. Yoshii
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
M. Nomura, T. Shimada, F. Tamura, M. Yamamoto
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-mura, Japan
A. Schnase
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

Magnetic alloy cavities are successfully used for J-PARC synchrotrons. These cavities generate much higher RF voltage than ordinary ferrite-loaded cavities. The MR (Main Ring) upgrade project aims to deliver the beam power of 750 kW to the neutrino experiment. It includes replacements of all RF cavities for high repetition rate of about 1 Hz. By the replacements, the total acceleration voltage will be doubled, while power supplies and amplifiers remain the same. The key issue is the development of a high gradient RF system using high impedance magnetic alloy, FT3L. A dedicated production system for the FT3L cores with 80 cm diameter was assembled in the J-PARC and demonstrated that we can produce material with two times higher muQf product compared to the cores used for present cavities. The first 5-cell FT3L cavity was assembled and the status of high power test is reported.

 


 



TUO1AB02
Upgrades of the RF Systems in the LHC Injector Complex
165


 

H. Damerau, M.E. Angoletta, T. Argyropoulos, P. Baudrenghien, A. Blas, T. Bohl, A.C. Butterworth, A. Findlay, R. Garoby, S.S. Gilardoni, S. Hancock, W. Höfle, J.C. Molendijk, E. Montesinos, M.M. Paoluzzi, D. Perrelet, C. Rossi, E.N. Shaposhnikova
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

In the framework of the LHC Injector Upgrade (LIU) project the radio-frequency (RF) systems of the synchrotrons in the LHC injector chain will undergo significant improvements to reach the high beam intensity and quality required by the High-Luminosity (HL) LHC. Following the recent upgrade of the longitudinal beam control system in the PS Booster (PSB), tests with Finemet cavities are being performed in view of a complete replacement of the existing RF systems in the PSB by ones based on this technology. In the PS a similar wide-band Finemet cavity has been installed as a longitudinal damper. New 1-turn delay feedbacks on the main accelerating cavities to reduce their impedance have also been commissioned. Additional feedback and beam control improvements are foreseen. A major upgrade of the main RF system in the SPS by regrouping sections of its travelling wave cavities, increasing the number of cavities from four to six, will reduce beam-loading and allow higher intensities to be accelerated. The upgrade includes the installation of two new RF power plants and new feedback systems. All upgrades will be evaluated with respect to their expected benefits for the beams to the LHC.

 






Slides TUO1AB02 [4.317 MB]
        
 


 



TUO1AB03
Enhancements of the Fermilab Booster to Reduce Losses and Extend Lifetime: The Proton Improvement Plan
 


 

R.M. Zwaska
                       Fermilab, Batavia, Illinois, USA

 


 

The Proton Improvement Plan is a campaign of upgrades, improvements, and replacements of equipment in the Fermilab Proton Source to enable operation of the machines at higher throughput for an extended period. The Fermilab Proton Source is principally composed of a 400 MeV linac and Booster synchrotron. This talk will concentrate on a number of improvements in injection, extraction, and the RF systems. The notching system in the Booster has been rebuilt with shorter kickers and a dedicated absorber within the ring. The cogging system is also being changed to a system using fast magnetic feedback, replacing the previous system which used radial RF feedback. A laser-based H− neutralization system will be implemented in the linac's MEBT, largely eliminating the loss from notching. The Booster RF system is undergoing a comprehensive overhaul. The amplifier stages have all been replaced with a mostly solid-state system. The cavities are being comprehensively refurbished. Harmonic cavities will be added. The RF power systems of the drift tube linac are also under study, with possible implementation of a 200 MHz klystron, and likely implementation of a modern modulator.

 






Slides TUO1AB03 [7.757 MB]
        
 


 



TUO1AB04
Current Status on ESS Medium Energy Beam Transport
170


 

I. Bustinduy, M. Magan, F. Sordo
                       ESS Bilbao, Bilbao, Spain
R. Miyamoto
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden

 


 

The European Spallation Source, ESS, uses a high power linear accelerator for producing intense beams of neutrons. During last year the ESS linac cost was reevaluated, as a consequence important modifications were introduced to the linac design that affected Medium Energy Beam Transport (MEBT) section. RFQ output beam energy increased from 3 MeV to 3.62 MeV, and beam current under nominal conditions was increased from 50 to 62.5mA. The considered MEBT is being designed primarily to match the RFQ output beam characteristics to the DTL input both transversally and longitudinally. For this purpose a set of eleven quadrupoles is used to match the beam characteristics transversally, combined with three 352.2 MHz CCL type buncher cavities, which are used to adjust the beam in order to fulfill the required longitudinal parameters. Finally, thermo-mechanical calculations for adjustable halo scraping blades, with significant impact on the HEBT, will be discussed.

 






Slides TUO1AB04 [5.290 MB]
        
 


 




