













HB2014 - Table of Session: TUO4LR (Working Group (AB) C)


TUO4LR —  Working Group (AB) C   (11-Nov-14   16:20—18:00)
Chair: S.M. Lund, FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA


Paper
Title
Page



TUO4LR01
The IOTA Ring: Present Status and Plans
 


 

S. Nagaitsev
                       Fermilab, Batavia, Illinois, USA

 


 

The Integrable Optics Test Accelerator (IOTA) is a small low-energy test storage ring, which is being constructed at Fermilab. The goal of this ring is to conduct research in the area of novel concepts in nonlinear beam optics, space-charge compensation and beam cooling. This talk will report on the present status and future plans of this research program.

 






Slides TUO4LR01 [3.375 MB]
        
 


 



TUO4LR02
Chromatic and Space Charge Effects in Nonlinear Integrable Optics
216


 

S.D. Webb, D.L. Bruhwiler
                       RadiaSoft LLC, Boulder, Colorado, USA
V.V. Danilov
                       ORNL, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA
R.A. Kishek
                       UMD, College Park, Maryland, USA
S. Nagaitsev, A. Valishev
                       Fermilab, Batavia, Illinois, USA

 


 

The IOTA test accelerator is under construction at FNAL to study a novel method of advancing the intensity frontier in storage rings: nonlinear integrable optics. For particles at the design momentum, the lattice has two invariants and the dynamics is integrable. In the ideal single-particle two-dimensional case, this yields bounded, regular orbits with extremely large tune spreads. Off-momentum effects such as dispersion and chromaticity, and collective effects such as direct space charge, break the integrability. We discuss the origin of this broken integrability for both single- and many-particle effects, and present simulation results for the IOTA lattice used as a high intensity proton storage ring.

 






Slides TUO4LR02 [2.373 MB]
        
 


 



TUO4LR03
UMER 2.0: Adapting the University of Maryland Electron Ring to Explore Intermediate Space-charge and Nonlinear Optics for Hadron Beam Facilities
 


 

R.A. Kishek, B. Beaudoin, S. Bernal, I. Haber, T.W. Koeth, E.J. Montgomery, K.J. Ruisard, W.D. Stem, D.F. Sutter
                       UMD, College Park, Maryland, USA

 


 

Funding: This work is supported by the US Dept. of Energy, Office of High Energy Physics and by the National Science Foundation.
Scaled experiments at the University of Maryland Electron Ring (UMER) facility have a long history of successes in understanding space-charge dynamics. Recent experiments included beam halo and losses, resonances with space-charge, longitudinal space-charge waves, solitons, and longitudinal confinement with induction cells. This talk presents progress in the design of next-generation UMER-based experimental research, with expanded capabilities to study nonlinear lattices. The work is complementary and in collaboration with the proposed IOTA ring at FNAL. UMER offers 3 advantages for this type of research: (1) the ability to assess the effects of intermediate space charge strength relevant to conventional Hadron rings on the performance on nonlinear lattices; (2) its low-cost printed-circuit magnets (enabled by the 10 keV electron beam energy) can be easily replaced to test different lattice concepts; and (3) the detailed diagnostics already in place facilitate benchmarking of simulation codes in this new regime.

 






Slides TUO4LR03 [8.724 MB]
        
 


 




