













HB2012 - Table of Session: THO3A (Working Group-B)


THO3A —  Working Group-B   (20-Sep-12   09:00—10:20)
Chair: I. Hofmann, GSI, Darmstadt, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



THO3A01
High Intensity Aspects of J-PARC Linac Including Re-commissioning after Earthquake
497


 

M. Ikegami, K. Futatsukawa, T. Miyao
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
Y. Liu
                       KEK/JAEA, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan
T. Maruta, A. Miura, J. Tamura
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-mura, Japan

 


 

We had a massive earthquake in March 2011, which forced us to shutdown J-PARC accelerators for nearly nine months due to its resultant damages. After significant restoration effort, we resumed the beam operation of J-PARC linac in December 2011 and user operation in January 2012. Subsequently, we restored the same beam power as just before the earthquake in March 2012. In the course of the beam commissioning after the earthquake, we have experienced beam losses which were not observed before the earthquake. We discuss the experimentally observed beam losses and its comparison with particle simulations.

 






Slides THO3A01 [5.249 MB]
            
 


 



THO3A02
Beam Dynamics of China ADS Linac
502


 

Z. Li
                       Private Address, Beijing, People's Republic of China
P. Cheng, H. Geng, Z. Guo, C. Meng, B. Sun, J.Y. Tang, F. Yan
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: Supported by China ADS Program(XDA03020000), National Natural Science Fundation of China (10875099) and IHEP Special Fundings(Y0515550U1)
An ADS study program is approved by Chinese Academy of Sciences at 2011, which aims to design and built an ADS demonstration facility with the capability of more than 1000 MW thermal power within the following 25 years. The 15 MW driver accelerator will be designed and constructed by the Institute of High Energy Physics (IHEP) and Institute of Modern Physics (IMP) of China Academy of Sciences. This linac is characterized by the 1.5 GeV energy, 10 mA current and CW operation. It is composed by two parallel 10 MeV injectors and a main linac integrated with fault tolerance design. The superconducting acceleration structures are employed except the RFQ. The general considerations and the beam dynamics design of the driver accelerator will be presented.

 






Slides THO3A02 [5.822 MB]
            
 


 



THO3A03
Simulations and Measurements in High Intensity LEBT with Space Charge Compensation
507


 

N. Chauvin
                       CEA/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
O. Delferrière, R. Gobin, P.A.P. Nghiem, D. Uriot
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France
R.D. Duperrier
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden

 


 

Over the last years, the interest of the international scientific community for high power accelerators in the megawatt range has been increasing. One of the major challenges is to extract and transport the beam while minimizing the emittance growth in the Low Energy Beam Transport line (LEBT). Consequently, it is crucial to perform precise simulations and cautious design of LEBT. In particular, the beam dynamics calculations have to take into account not only the space charge effects but also the space charge compensation of the beam induced by ionization of the residual gas. The code SOLMAXP has been developed in CEA-Saclay to perform self-consistent calculations taking into account space charge compensation. Extensive beam dynamics simulations have been done with this code to design the IFMIF LEBT (Deuteron beam of 125 mA at 100 keV, cw). The commissioning of the IFMIF injector started a few months ago and emmittance measurements of H+ and D+ beams have been done. The first experimental results will be presented and compared to simulation.

 






Slides THO3A03 [3.165 MB]
            
 


 



THO3A04
Beam Halo Definitions and its Consequences
511


 

P.A.P. Nghiem, N. Chauvin, D. Uriot
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France
W. Simeoni
                       CEA/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France

 


 

In high-intensity accelerators, much attention is paid to the beam halo: formation, growth interaction with the beam core, etc. Indeed, beam losses, a critical issue for those high-power accelerators, directly depend on the beam halo behaviour. But in the presence of very strong space-charge forces, the beam distribution takes very different shapes along the accelerator, often very far from any regular distributions, with very varied halo extensions. The difficulty is then to find a general definition of the halo capable of describing any distribution type. This paper proposes a definition of the beam halo, studies its consequences and compares it to the most usual ones.

 






Slides THO3A04 [9.030 MB]
            
 


 




