













HB2012 - Table of Session: THO3C (Working Group-E)


THO3C —  Working Group-E   (20-Sep-12   14:00—16:30)
Chair: V.E. Scarpine, Fermilab, Batavia, USA


Paper
Title
Page



THO3C01
Optical Transition Radiation for Non-relativistic Ion Beams
580


 

B. Walasek-Höhne, C.A. Andre, F. Becker, P. Forck, A. Reiter, M. Schwickert, R. Singh
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
A.H. Lumpkin
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

In this contribution, recent results of Optical Transition Radiation (OTR) measurements with a non-relativistic heavy-ion beam will be presented. This feasibility study was prompted by previous measurements [1] and the theoretical estimation of expected signal strengths for the GSI linear accelerator UNILAC. For this experiment, an 11.4 MeV/u Uranium beam was chosen to investigate OTR signal from several target materials and to evaluate the working regime for the used experimental setup. The OTR light was either observed directly with an Image Intensified CCD camera (ICCD) or indirectly via a spectrometer for wavelength resolved data. A moveable stripping foil allowed measurements with two different ion charge states. The theoretical q2 dependency of the OTR process predicts a six-fold increase in light yield which was confirmed experimentally. Obtained OTR beam profiles were compered to SEM-Grid data. Moreover, ICCD gating feature, as well as the emitted light spectrum ruled out contribution of any background sources with longer emission time constant e.g. blackbody radiation.
[1] C. Bal et al., "OTR from Non-relativistic Electrons", Proceedings of DIPAC03, PM04, Mainz Germany.

 






Slides THO3C01 [1.905 MB]
            
 


 



THO3C02
Momentum Spread Determination of Linac Beams Using Incoherent  Components of the Bunch Signals
583


 

P. Kowina, P. Forck, M. Schwickert
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
F. Caspers
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Measurements of the momentum spread of the beam particles are of great importance when optimizing linac settings for high current operation with controlled longitudinal phase space occupation. A new method of momentum spread determination was tested at the GSI heavy ion linear accelerator UNILAC. The method is based on an analysis of incoherent components of the bunch signal. A significant enhancement of the signal-to-noise ratio was achieved by means of a resonant pick-up of pill-box shape. Spectra were analyzed on the 36th harmonics of the linac rf-frequency, i.e. at 1.3 GHz. Thus, the contribution of coherent components in the frequency spectrum of the bunched beam, e.g. due to common mode, was significantly damped. Fast digital processing and gating synchronized to the bunch train allowed for a drastic reduction of the measurement time and, additionally, suppressed noise signals in the frequency spectrum. This contribution describes the measurement setup and discusses first results obtained with heavy ion beams.

 






Slides THO3C02 [2.131 MB]
            
 


 



THO3C03
Beam Induced Fluorescence - Profile Monitoring for Targets and Transport
586


 

F. Becker, C.A. Andre, C. Dorn, P. Forck, R. Haseitl, B. Walasek-Höhne
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
T. Dandl, T. Heindl, A. Ulrich
                       TUM/Physik, Garching bei München, Germany
J. Egberts, T. Papaevangelou
                       CEA, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
J. Marroncle
                       CEA/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France

 


 

Online profile diagnostic is preferred to monitor intense hadron beams at the Facility of Antiproton and Ion Research (FAIR). One instrument for beam profile measurement is the gas based Beam Induced Fluorescence (BIF)-monitor. It relies on the optical fluorescence of residual gas, excited by beam particles. In front of production targets for radioactive ion beams or in plasma physics applications, vacuum constraints are less restrictive and allow a sufficient number of fluorescence photons, even at minimum ionizing energies. Unwanted effects like radiation damage and radiation induced background need to be addressed as well. A profile comparison of BIF and Ionization Profile Monitor (IPM) in nitrogen and rare gases is presented. We studied the BIF method from 10-3 to 30 mbar with an imaging spectrograph. Preferable fluorescence transitions and fundamental limitations are discussed.

 






Slides THO3C03 [7.371 MB]
            
 


 



THO3C04
Longitudinal Beam Diagnosis with RF Chopper System
591


 

T. Maruta
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-mura, Japan
M. Ikegami
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

J-PARC linac has a chopper system between RFQ and DTL, which utilizes an RF deflector cavity instead of a usual slow wave kicker. Taking advantage of this unique feature of the chopper system, we have experimentally measured the longitudinal full width of phase direction at the chopper cavity. In this presentation, I would like to discuss the measurement technique and measurement results.

 






Slides THO3C04 [2.495 MB]
            
 


 



THO3C05
Fiber Based BLM System Research and Development at CERN
596


 

S. Mallows
                       The University of Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom
E.B. Holzer, S. Mallows, J.W. van Hoorne
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The application of a beam loss measurement (BLM) system based on Cherenkov light generated in optical fibers to a linear accelerator with long bunch trains is currently under investigation at CERN. In the context of the Compact Linear Collider (CLIC) study, the machine protection role of the BLM system consists of its input to the \lqnext cycle permit\rq. In between two cycles it is determined whether it is safe to commit the machine for the next cycle. A model for light production and propagation has been developed and validated with beam measurements. Monte Carlo simulations of loss scenarios established the suitability in terms of sensitivity and dynamic range. The achievable longitudinal position resolution of the system, considering that the bunch trains and the optical fiber length are comparable in size is discussed.

 






Slides THO3C05 [3.846 MB]
            
 


 



THO3C06
On-line Calibration Schemes for RF-based Beam Diagnostics
601


 

P.-A. Duperrex, U. Müller
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

RF-based beam diagnostics such as BPMs and beam current monitors rely on precise RF signal measurements. Temperature drifts and differences in the overall measurement chain gain make such measurements very challenging and calibration validity over time is an issue. Over some years, on-line calibration schemes for BPMs and current monitors have been developed. These innovative schemes are based on the use of a pilot signal at a frequency offset from the measurement frequency. Results, advantages and disadvantages of such schemes are discussed.

 






Slides THO3C06 [2.742 MB]
            
 


 




