













HF2014 - Table of Session: THT5A (Working Group 10)


THT5A —  Working Group 10   (09-Oct-14   18:00—19:45)



Paper
Title
Page



THT5A1
Energy Consumption and Savings Potential of CLIC
 


 

P. Lebrun
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

High-energy accelerators have developed into large machines consuming tens of MW electrical power, thus making the energy bill a major component of their operating costs and eventually of their acceptability by society. With several new projects under study beyond the Large Hadron Collider (LHC), and projections of rising electricity prices by energy agencies, this trend is expected to grow into a critical issue for future machines. Clearly identified in the conceptual design of the Compact Linear Collider (CLIC), the concern was addressed by studying power consumption and energy efficiency in the different accelerator systems and energy management in diverse operating scenarios compatible with the physics objectives *. The study triggered specific developments, in the laboratory and in industry, aiming at improving efficiency of technical components or subsystems, as well as first investigations of energy recovery potential. We present analytical estimates of CLIC power consumption and paths being explored to improve its energy efficiency along the four lines of sobriety, efficiency, energy management and waste heat recovery.
* Ph. Lebrun et al., The CLIC programme: towards a staged e+e− linear collider exploring the Terascale, CERN-2012-005 (2012) 

 


 



THT5A2
A Green CEPC Using the Power of Nuclear Waste
49


 

Z.C. Liu, J. Gao
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

China is proposing to build an efficient Higgs factory, CEPC, a 52 km ring under the ground, to search the mysteries of the particle physics. This large circular collider would allow the Higgs boson to be studied with greater precision than at the much smaller Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at CERN. However, several hundreds of MW wall power is needed to run such a huge machine. With the development of China nuclear power, a huge amount of long-lived nuclear waste needs to be safe disposed. The nuclear waste can be safely disposed by Accelerator Driven Sub-critical System (ADS) and provide electric power at the same time. Both CEPC and ADS are based on the superconducting accelerator technology and the power of the CEPC can be fully covered by the ADS. A green CEPC running in China is possible in the future.

 


 



THT5A3
Greening for Bosons
54


 

T.I. Parker
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden
P.C. Peck
                       IIIEE, Lund, Sweden

 


 

Throughout history, scientific advancement has been dependent upon advances in the technologies of research. Modern accelerator science also has massive (and increasing) energy needs, yet the very provision of secure, equitable, clean and cost effective energy is one of the greatest sustainability challenges facing society. Modern energy provision systems are fundamental to development, yet also constitute one of the greatest threats to sustainability via their contribution to environmental degradation and climate change. This discussion works from a premise that any new proposal for investment in an RI should credibly demonstrate that it will deliver more value than cost to society. As our understanding of the negative impacts of energy use grows, the demonstration of overall value creation has become more complex; it must now include consideration of an RI's 'energy system footprint'. Programs to reduce the energy footprint can help address this delicate balance. This paper uses experiences in the development of the European Spallation Source (ESS) in Sweden to demonstrate how credible programs to improve the energy performance of an RI can take form.

 


 




