













HF2014 - Table of Session: FRT3B (Working Group 2-Optics)


FRT3B —  Working Group 2-Optics   (10-Oct-14   14:00—15:30)



Paper
Title
Page



FRT3B1
Beam-beam Effects in CEPC and TLEP
122


 

K. Ohmi
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

Higgs factories are designed with very low beta at IP and low emittance. Since chromaticity becomes very high, momentum acceptance is limited. Energy spreading due to Beamstrahlung is serious issues for Higgs factories. We discuss energy spread and tail caused by beamstrahlung and requirement for the momentum acceptance.

 


 



FRT3B2
Interaction Region Magnets
130


 

E. Paoloni
                       University of Pisa and INFN, Pisa, Italy

 


 

The magnets of the very final focus are among the most challenging devices of a collider. They must be very compact to leave empty space for the surrounding detectors still providing strong focusing power together with excellent field quality not to degrade the beam line dynamic aperture. Being all placed very close one respect each other and well inside the detector (which is usually a magnetic spectrometer) several strategies to compensate the cross talk of the leaking field and the coupling introduced by the detector field had been recently proposed and some are now in the construction phase. In this paper I will shortly review these novel compensation techniques, the present status of the interaction region magnets now under construction and the main concepts of their design together with a summary of some of the research and development project in the field.

 


 



FRT3B3
Beam-beam Effects in the CEPC
 


 

Y. Zhang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China
K. Ohmi
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
D.N. Shatilov
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Project U1332108 supported by NSFC and Youth Innovation Promotion Association, CAS.
CEPC is a Circular Electron Positron Collider proposed to carry out high precision study on Higgs bosons. The luminosity and beam lifetime may be determined by the beamstrahlung effect. We try to check the resonability of the machine parameters with weak-strong and strong-strong simulation. At the same time we also do some cross-check between different codes. We wish the work could help determine the beam parameters which could achieve design luminosity.

 


 



FRT3B4
Broad-band Long-focus Mirror Optical System for Infrared Diagnostics
134


 

A.A. Maltsev
                       JINR, Dubna, Moscow Region, Russia
V.A. Golubev, S.A. Kaploukhiy, M.V. Maltseva
                       TENZOR, Dubna, Moscow region, Russia
K.A. Gusakova
                       JINR/VBLHEP, Dubna, Moscow region, Russia

 


 

The detection systems incorporate specially designed infrared-optical elements: a high-vacuum window of optical ceramics and broadband long-focus optical channels. Optical channel for extracting, transporting, and applying (to a detector) IR synchrotron radiation covering a wide wavelength range was developed. Concerning the optical systems with long-focus entrance objective and mirror lenses, as well as with a field condenser lens, is reported. Practical use of IR optics combined with integrated and position-sensitive detectors in accelerator experiments with synchrotron radiation is described.

 


 




