













HF2014 - Table of Session: SAT3B (Working Group 5-Superconducting RF)


SAT3B —  Working Group 5-Superconducting RF   (11-Oct-14   14:00—15:30)



Paper
Title
Page



SAT3B1
High Power Couplers for Higgs Factory
 


 

E. Kako
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

High power couplers for Higgs Factory are reviewed. Development, fabrication, conditioning and operation of input couplers will be presented. RF power capability, coaxial or waveguide, adjustable or fixed coupling, RF window type, cooling method and voltage biasing will be covered.

 


 



SAT3B2
HOM Damper Hardware Considerations for Future Energy Frontier Circular Colliders
196


 

S.A. Belomestnykh
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA
S.A. Belomestnykh
                       Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, USA

 


 

Funding: Work is supported by Brookhaven Science Associates, LLC under contract No. DE-AC02-98CH10886 with the US DOE.
Future high luminosity energy frontier circular colliders will operate with high average beam currents. Radio-frequency systems in these machines will utilize superconducting RF (SRF) structures with strong damping of higher order modes (HOMs). In this paper I will consider HOM damping options for SRF cavities, review HOM damper hardware, both existing and under development, and outline R&D necessary to develop efficient HOM damping in the future circular colliders.

 


 



SAT3B3
Tuners, Operating Experience and Performance Recovery
200


 

Y. Morita
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

Several important issues for the SRF cavity system will be discussed. One issue is a tuner system. Recent tuner systems have significantly advanced at many laboratories and a number of tuner technologies now exist for a variety of requirements. We will review those tuner systems and discuss applicability. The second issue is stability of cavity operation. The SRF systems for the Higgs factory must have as low trip rate as possible. Maintenance work is necessary to keep the trip rate at low level. The SRF cavity design that takes into account the ease of maintenance is required. Operational experience of KEKB is an useful example for practical considerations. The third issue is performance degradation and its recovery method. In a long-term operation, cavity performance gradually degrades. A recovery method with a low risk, low cost and in a short period of time is desirable. We have developed a horizontal high pressure rinsing that can be applied directly to the cavity in a cryomodule. Our degraded cavities successfully recovered using this method.

 


 




