













HF2014 - Table of Session: FRT4B (Working Group 4-SR and Shielding)


FRT4B —  Working Group 4-SR and Shielding   (10-Oct-14   16:00—17:30)



Paper
Title
Page



FRT4B1
Monte-carlo Simulation of Synchrotron Radiation in the Design of CEPC Vacuum Chamber
147


 

Y.D. Ding, Z.J. Ma, P.F. Wang, Q.B. Wang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

The circular electron positron collider (CEPC) has been proposed by IHEP. Two 120GeV beams circulate around the 54km accelerator rings, which produce intense synchrotron radiation with photon energies up to a few of mega-electron volts. It is very important to analysis the source of synchrotron radiation. Two techniques of designing vacuum chamber which are contained Al covered by Pb and total by Cu are put forward to protect sensitive machine components. A Monte-Carlo program called MCNP has been used to calculate dose rate, heat and energy spectrum of synchrotron radiation in the tunnel in former two designing cases. The results including dose rate, heat and energy spectrum which performed in various components of the CEPC are shown in this article.

 


 



FRT4B2
Vacuum System Requirements for a HF e+e− Accelerator
151


 

R. Kersevan
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Future e+e− Higgs Factories (HF) are challenging machines which require a careful design of their vacuum systems. The high-energy of the beams implies a very high critical energy of the synchrotron radiation (SR) spectrum, and a large SR power. From the point of view of the linear SR power density and flux, HFs are not as extreme as some existing SR light sources, for which cooling and pumping solutions have been conceived and validated. The main problem with HFs is their sheer size, which calls for a standardization of the design for the long, repetitive arc sections, with a need to find a "cheap" solution which could be transfered easily to industry. This paper will compare the merits of different pumping solutions, and choice of materials for the vacuum chambers.

 


 



FRT4B3
Synchrotron Radiation Effects in the Higgs Factory Injectors
 


 

Y. Papaphilippou
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Using tentative parameters of the FCC-ee injectors for theand simple scaling formulas, ideas regarding the synchrotron radiation effects in the for the Issues rela synchrotron radiation

 


 



FRT4B4
Shielding of Electronics in the Tunnel
157


 

L.S. Esposito, M. Brugger, F. Cerutti, A. Ferrari, R. Losito
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Radiation to Electronics (R2E) represents a crucial issue to be taken into account as design criterion of any high energy and intensity machine. The different effects on the concerned equipment and the microscopic mechanisms underneath are reviewed. Evaluation and mitigation strategies are presented, based on the support of dedicated Monte Carlo calculations. In the specific context of a future e+e− HF, the relevant radiation sources and their possible impact are discussed.

 


 




