













HF2014 - Table of Session: SAT4A (Working Group 6-Injectors and Injection)


SAT4A —  Working Group 6-Injectors and Injection   (11-Oct-14   16:00—17:30)



Paper
Title
Page



SAT4A1
Top-off Injection at PEP-II and Applications to a Circular e+e− Higgs Factory
205


 

J.T. Seeman
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported in part by US Department of Energy contract number DE-AC03-76SF00515.
Top-off injection was developed in PEP-II from the linac injector to allow constant luminosity with the BaBar detector being fully operational during injection. The electron beam top-off was developed first as its lifetime was the shortest and thus made the luminosity nearly constant. Second, the positron beam top-off was developed make the luminosity fully constant. Either electrons or positron could be injection up to 30 Hz if needed, deciding pulse-by-pulse which beam (bunch) was desired. Technical details of PEP-II top-off will be presented. The implications for top-off into a circular Higgs factory will also be discussed.

 


 



SAT4A2
Injection with Pretzels at CESR
210


 

D.H. Rice, D. L. Rubin
                       Cornell University (CLASSE), Cornell Laboratory for Accelerator-Based Sciences and Education, Ithaca, New York, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by multiple grants from the US National Science Foundation
CESR has operated with pretzel orbits since 1983. With separation in the horizontal plane, the parasitic crossings reduce the acceptance for horizontal betatron stacking of injected particles. Furthermore, both coherent and incoherent long range beam-beam effects reduce tune plane working space. We present the experience at CESR and discuss applicability to the circular Higgs factories.

 


 



SAT4A3
Lattice Optimization for Top-off Injection
213


 

R.M. Talman
                       Cornell University (CLASSE), Cornell Laboratory for Accelerator-Based Sciences and Education, Ithaca, New York, USA

 


 

This paper discusses Higgs factory injection. Full energy, top-off injection is assumed. Vertical injection seems preferable to horizontal and kicker-free, bunch-by-bunch injection concurrent with physics running may be feasible. Achieving high efficiency injection justifies optimizing injector and/or collider lattices for maximum injection efficiency. Stronger focusing in the injector and weaker focusing in the collider improves the injection efficiency. Scaling formulas (for the dependence on ring radius R) show injection efficiency increasing with increasing ring circumference. Scaling up from LEP, more nearly optimal parameters for both injector and collider are obtained. Maximum luminosity favors adjusting the collider cell length Lc for maximum luminosity and choosing a shorter injector cell length, Li<Lc, for maximizing injection efficiency.

 


 




