













HF2014 - Table of Session: FRT2A (Working Group 1-Parameters)


FRT2A —  Working Group 1-Parameters   (10-Oct-14   10:30—12:00)



Paper
Title
Page



FRT2A1
Constraints on the FCC-ee Lattice from the Compatibility with the FCC Hadron Collider
87


 

B. Härer, W. Bartmann, M. Benedikt, B.J. Holzer, J.A. Osborne, D. Schulte, R. Tomás, J. Wenninger, F. Zimmermann
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
B. Härer
                       KIT, Karlsruhe, Germany
M.J. Syphers
                       MSU, East Lansing, Michigan, USA
U. Wienands
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Following the recommendations of the European Strategy Group for High Energy Physics, CERN started the Future Circular Collider Study (FCC), a design study for possible future circular collider projects to investigate their feasibility for high energy physics research. The FCC Study covers three different machines with a circumference of 100 km: an electron positron collider with collision energy in the range of 91 GeV to 350 GeV (FCC-ee), a proton proton collider with a maximum energy of 100 TeV (FCC-hh) and an electron proton option (FCC-he). This talk will point out the constraints on the design of the FCC-ee lattice and optics from geometry and lattice considerations of the hadron machine.

 


 



FRT2A2
Polarization Issues and Schemes for Energy Calibration
91


 

I. Koop
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

The paper presents an overview of problems related to production, acceleration and subsequent utilization of the polarized electron and positron beams for the precise energy calibration in the future FCC-ee storage rings. Advantages and disadvantages of the proposed method of free precession frequency measurement are discussed.

 


 



FRT2A3
Cost Consideration and a Possible Construction Timeline of the CEPC-SPPC
95


 

W. Chou
                       Fermilab, Batavia, Illinois, USA

 


 

This paper discusses the cost consideration and a possible construction timeline of the CEPC-SPPC study based on a preliminary conceptual design that is being carried out at the Institute of High Energy Physics (IHEP) in China.

 


 




