













HF2014 - Table of Session: SAT1B (Working Group 4-SR and Shielding)


SAT1B —  Working Group 4-SR and Shielding   (11-Oct-14   08:30—10:00)



Paper
Title
Page



SAT1B1
Synchrotron Radiation Issues for the CEPC IR
165


 

M.K. Sullivan
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Synchrotron radiation from the high-energy electron and positron beams is a primary concern for both the detector and the machine in the interaction region area of the CEPC collider. Radiation from bending magnets as well as focusing magnets must be investigated, modeled and traced. The power from these sources is quite high and can be a problem for both the detector and the accelerator if they are not carefully controlled. I will show preliminary calculations of the synchrotron radiation generated by the current design.

 


 



SAT1B2
Lost Particles in the IR and Issues for Beam Induced Backgrounds in Higgs Factories
169


 

M. Boscolo
                       INFN/LNF, Frascati (Roma), Italy
H. Burkhardt
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The loss of beam particles has to be well under control in high energy and high luminosity e+e− colliders 'namely Higgs Factories- especially at the interaction regions. In the design stage the main beam related effects causing particle losses need to be studied in details by means of full simulation to check that machine induced background rates are tolerable for the experiments and, if not, conceive an efficient collimation system to intercept particles that would eventually be lost in the Interaction region (IR). These studies can also give a realistic evaluation of beam lifetime. We will review how main beam backgrounds have been handled at SuperB and DAΦNE and we will mention the LEP experience. A first tracking simulation of the Touschek and radiative Bhabha particles for the CEPC IR case are presented as a starting point for losses evaluation. Synchrotron Radiation, essentially determined by the beam energy, is a key issue for the IR design of Higgs Factories. A first description of the tools under development for the SR evaluation in view of the FCC-ee design study is given.

 


 



SAT1B3
Synchrotron Radiation Absorption and Vacuum Issues in the IR
174


 

J.T. Seeman
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Funding: Supported in part by US Department of Energy contract number DE-AC03-76SF00515.
The beams in a circular e+e− collider emit synchrotron radiation photons in the dipoles and quadrupoles in the interaction region and deposit them in the nearby vacuum chambers. These photons must be absorbed in the vacuum chambers with the deposited power taken away and the emitted gasses pumped away not to cause beam-gas backgrounds. A discussion of how this was done in the PEP-II IR will be presented and implications for a Higgs Factory will be shown.

 


 



SAT1B4
Infrared Synchrotron Methods and Systems for Monitoring and Controlling Particle Beams in Real Time
179


 

M.V. Maltseva
                       TENZOR, Dubna, Moscow region, Russia
A.A. Maltsev
                       JINR, Dubna, Moscow Region, Russia

 


 

We present the methods and infrared position-sensitive detection systems for nondestructive diagnostics and study of charged-particle beams or bunches based on the use of their synchrotron radiation in a wide spectral range. The detection systems contains of the optoelectronic and spectral detectors working in real time with the computer system. The synchrotron radiation spectrum that is used mainly in the infrared region (wavelength range > 1 mkm). The radiation is detected in the spectral region 0.3 - 45 mkm by infrared detectors operating at low temperature or room temperature. Results are presented on the measurement of the number of electrons in the ring bunch, the equilibrium radius and dimensions of the small cross section of bunch, and the angular divergence of the synchrotron radiation relative to the median plane of the ring bunch. The extension of the spectral range of positively diagnosed synchrotron radiation opens up new possibilities and prospects for solving scientific and applied problems.

 


 




