













HF2014 - Table of Session: FRT1B (Working Group 2-Optics)


FRT1B —  Working Group 2-Optics   (10-Oct-14   08:30—10:00)



Paper
Title
Page



FRT1B1
Analysis of Beam Dynamics in a Circular Higgs Factory
67


 

Y. Cai
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the Department of Energy under Contract Number: DE-AC02-76SF00515.
We design a circular Higgs factory with a center-of-mass energy of 240 GeV residing in a 50-km tunnel. Aside from two strong focusing systems and a low-emittance lattice in acrs that are required to achieve a factory luminosity of 1.0×1034cm-2s-1, a large momentum aperture of 2% is absolutely necessary to mitigate the effect of beamstrahlung and retain an adequate beam lifetime. This turns out to be the most challenging aspect in the design. We comprehensively study the single-particle dynamics and identity many nonlinear aberrations that limit the performance of the optics.

 


 



FRT1B2
Dynamic Aperture Optimization in SuperKEKB
73


 

Y. Ohnishi, H. Koiso, A. Morita, K. Ohmi, K. Oide, H. Sugimoto, D. Zhou
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

Colliders squeeze a beam spot at an interaction point(IP) to obtain higher luminosity. Large natural chromaticity generated in a final focus system should be corrected by strong sextupole magnets. Nonlinear effects in the sextupole field and the final focus magnets decreases the dynamic aperture significantly. Optimization of the dynamic aperture is based on a numerical particle-tracking simulations since aberrations of particle motions due to nonlinear and higher-order effects are treated. In particular, low emittance and low beta functions at IP in SuperKEKB, the dynamic aperture is one of the important issues for both Touschek lifetime and injection efficiency. We present an optimization procedure of the dynamic aperture in SuperKEKB.

 


 



FRT1B3
The Effect of IR Imperfection on Dynamic Aperture in SuperKEKB / Dynamic Aperture Study of CEPC
79


 

H. Sugimoto
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

Interaction region (IR) is the most critical part of colliders to optimize the dynamic aperture because a detector solenoid and strong final focus magnets give rise to complicated nonlinear beam dynamics. Design of the SuperKEKB IR has been carried out with considering the effect of a possible IR imperfection on the machine performance. In this talk, degradation of dynamic aperture due to error fields from the final focus magnets will be discussed. We also present a preliminary study of dynamic aperture of CEPC based on the experience of the SuperKEKB lattice design.

 


 



FRT1B4
Lifetime and Injection Considerations for CEPC
85


 

X. Cui, H. Geng, Y.Y. Guo, G. Xu
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

To make a precise study on the Higgs bosons, CEPC,a circular storage ring collider is being proposed in China. The beam lifetime calculation results in CEPC is shown in this paper. Due to the fact of short lifetime, a top-up injection scheme is needed and some considerations on the injection design is presented.

 


 




