













HF2014 - Table of Session: SUT1A (Working Group 8-Polarization)


SUT1A —  Working Group 8-Polarization   (12-Oct-14   08:30—10:00)



Paper
Title
Page



SUT1A1
Transverse Polarization for Energy Calibration at the Z-Peak
223


 

M. Koratzinos
                       DPNC, Genève, Switzerland

 


 

In this paper we deal with aspects of transverse polarization for the purpose of energy calibration of proposed circular colliders like the FCC-ee and the CEPC. The main issues of such a measurement will be discussed. The possibility of using this method to accurately determine the energy at the WW threshold as well as the Z peak will be addressed. The use of wigglers for reducing long polarization times will be discussed and a possible strategy will be presented for minimising the energy uncertainty error in these large machines.

 


 



SUT1A2
Longitudinal Polarization and Acceleration of Polarized Beams
227


 

I. Koop
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

The paper describes a scheme of creation of the longitudinally polarized electron beam at the collision point of the future FCC-ee collider. A scheme is based on use of two 90-degrees spin rotators placed in appropriate points of the interaction region. The solenoid type spin rotators are proposed to use for that purpose. Advantages and disadvantages of the proposed approach are discussed.

 


 



SUT1A3
FCC-ee Beam Energy Measurement Suggestion
230


 

N.Yu. Muchnoi
                       NSU, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

An approach for beam energy calibration at future circular electron-positron collider (FCC-ee) is suggested. The method is based on a magnetic spectrometer, but does not require absolute knowledge of its bending field. Inverse Compton scattering of laser radiation on the electron beam provides accurate calibration of the bending force. Due to scattering kinematics, the beam energy determination is based on the laser wavelength together with accurate measurement of the ratio of deflection angles. The approach has no serious limitations in the electron beam energy range. The same apparatus allows to measure the electron beam polarization.

 


 



SUT1A4
Possible Applications of Wave-beam Interaction for Energy Measurement and Obtaining of Polarization at FCCee
233


 

E.B. Levichev, S.A. Nikitin
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

Possibility to monitor beam energy in FCCee with an accuracy of ~10-4 using Compton scattering on a waveguide wave is under consideration. Methods based on interaction of a beam with circularly polarized "soft photons" and "hard photons" for obtaining beam polarization, proposed and theoretically substantiated in the past but not yet approved anywhere, are discussed in regard to parameters of FCCee.

 


 




