













HF2014 - Table of Session: FRT3A (Working Group 3-IR and MDI)


FRT3A —  Working Group 3-IR and MDI   (10-Oct-14   14:00—15:30)



Paper
Title
Page



FRT3A1
SuperKEKB Background Simulations, Including Issues for Detector Shielding
110


 

H. Nakayama, Y. Funakoshi, T. Ishibashi, K. Kanazawa, Y. Ohnishi
                       KEK, Tsukuba, Japan

 


 

The Belle experiment, operated on the KEKB accelerator in KEK, had accumulated a data sample with an integrated luminosity of more than 1 ab−1 before the shutdown in 2010. We are preparing upgraded accelerator and detector, called SuperKEKB and Belle-II, to achieve the target luminosity of 8×1035 cm−2 s−1. With the increased luminosity, we expect more beam background which might damage our detector components, hide event signals under noise hits, max out readout bandwidth, etc. Detector shieldings is a key to cope with the increased background and protect Belle-II detector. We present how we estimate the impact from each beam background sources at SuperKEKB, such as Touschek-scattering, beam-gas scattering, radiative Bhabha process, etc. We also present our countermeasures to mitigate the beam background, such as tungsten shields installed in the detector to stop shower particles, beam collimators to stop stray beam particles before they reach interaction region, dedicated beam pipe design around interaction point to stop synchrotron radiation, and so on.

 


 



FRT3A2
Analytical Estimation of Maximum Beam-beam Tune Shifts for Electron-positron and Hadron Circular Colliders
114


 

J. Gao, S. Bai, T.J. Bian, S. Jin, D. Wang, Y. Wang, M. Xiao
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China
F. Su
                       Institute of High Energy Physics (IHEP), People's Republic of China

 


 

In this talk we will show that the achievable maximum beam-beam tune shifts per interaction point in lepton and hadron colliders are not universal constant, but a value depending on machine parameters, such as energy, damping time vs revolution period, and the number of interaction points. Three different analytical formulae have been shown and compared with different machines of electron-positron colliders and one formula for hadron colliders compared with hadron machines. The analytical maximum beam-beam tune shift estimations have been applied to CEPC and SppC machine designs.

 


 




