













HF2014 - Table of Session: THT4B (Working Group 2-Optics)


THT4B —  Working Group 2-Optics   (09-Oct-14   16:00—17:30)



Paper
Title
Page



THT4B2
Single Ring Multibunch Operation and Beam Separation
33


 

R.M. Talman
                       Cornell University (CLASSE), Cornell Laboratory for Accelerator-Based Sciences and Education, Ithaca, New York, USA

 


 

The counter-circulating electrons and positrons in a circular Higgs Factory have to be separated everywhere except at the N* intersection points (IP). The separation has to be electric and, to avoid unwanted increase of vertical emittance epsilony, the separation has to be horizontal. This paper considers only head-on collisions at N*=2 IP's, with the beams separated everywhere else (but with nodes at RF cavities) by closed electric bumps.

 


 



THT4B3
Challenges and Status of the FCC-ee Lattice Design
40


 

B. Härer, B.J. Holzer
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
B. Härer
                       KIT, Karlsruhe, Germany

 


 

Following the recommendations of the European Strategy Group for High Energy Physics, CERN started the Future Circular Collider Study (FCC), a design study for possible future circular collider projects to investigate their feasibility for high energy physics research. One part of this study is FCC-ee, an e+/e− collider with a circumference of 100 km. Challenges for the lattice design result from operation at four different beam energies ranging from 45.5 GeV to 175 GeV. Very high beamstrahlung effects at high energies and the beam-beam limit at low energies request emittance parameters that rise with decreasing beam energy. This talk will present the status of the lattice design and the lattice modifications needed to achieve the requested emittance parameters.

 


 



THT4B4
Status of CEPC Lattice Design
45


 

H. Geng, S. Bai, X. Cui, Z. Duan, S. Fu, J. Gao, Y.Y. Guo, Y.M. Peng, Q. Qin, D. Wang, N. Wang, Y. Wang, M. Xiao, G. Xu, Y. Yue, Y. Zhang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China
W. Chou
                       Fermilab, Batavia, Illinois, USA

 


 

IHEP has proposed a circular electron and positron collider (CEPC) to study the properties of the Higgs boson. In the baseline design, the circumference of CEPC will be taken as 50km, and a sing ring scheme will be adopted, e.g., the electron and positron beam will share the beam pipes. This paper will show the latest design of the CEPC lattice, including the design of the main ring lattice and the pretzel scheme. Some critical issues that we encountered when designing the lattice will also be discussed.

 


 




