













HF2014 - Table of Session: FRT1A (Working Group 1-Parameters)


FRT1A —  Working Group 1-Parameters   (10-Oct-14   08:30—10:00)



Paper
Title
Page



FRT1A1
Beam-beam Effects in High-energy Colliders: Crab Waist vs. Head-on
 


 

D.N. Shatilov
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

At high energies, one of the main factors limiting the luminosity of electron-positron colliders is beamstrahlung, which affects the energy spread, bunch length and beam lifetime. We discuss the effect of beamstrahlung and maximum achievable luminosities at different FCC-ee energies: Z, W, H, tt. At "low" energies (Z, W), the luminosity can be increased several times if the Crab Waist scheme is used. At "high" energies (H, tt) Crab Waist and Head-on collisions are of equal efficiency.

 


 



FRT1A2
Parameter Optimization of Higgs Factory Design
59


 

C. Zhang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

In this paper, parameter optimization of Higgs factories is discussed focusing on the designs of CEPC and FCCee. The total beam current in Higgs factories is limited by synchrotron radiation power, and then the machine size and cost; maximum linear tune shift is limited by beam-beam interaction; reduction of beta-function at interaction point is restricted by the distance of the final focusing quadrupole to the interaction point, bunch length, 'hour glass' effect and dynamic aperture. Beamstrahlung effects beam energy spread and lifetime in the colliders, limiting luminosity reach. High luminosity in the Higgs factories requires optimization of parameters.

 


 



FRT1A3
Polarization Issues in the ee FCC
63


 

E. Gianfelice-Wendt
                       Fermilab, Batavia, Illinois, USA

 


 

For precise beam energy measurements at the FCC the use of resonant depolarization has been suggested. The time constant of self-polarization (Sokolov-Ternov effect), which in such a large ring is 14 hours even at 80 GeV (WW resonance), is the first issue. This time can be greatly reduced by inserting proper wigglers in the machine lattice. The resulting large beam energy spread however may destroy polarization in presence of unavoidable magnet misalignments. This calls for precise machine alignment and careful orbit correction. In this paper the possibility of polarization in the FCC in presence of wigglers is investigated and first calculations are presented.
Work supported by Fermi Research Alliance, LLC under Contract No. DE-AC02-07CH11359 with the United States Department of Energy.

 


 




