













HIAT2018 - Table of Session: THOCA (Ion Sources, Traps and Charge Breeding)


THOCA —  Ion Sources, Traps and Charge Breeding   (25-Oct-18   10:10—10:30)



Paper
Title
Page



THOCA01
Gyrotron Based Systems for Electron Cyclotron Resonance Ion Sources
 


 

A.I. Tsvetkov, A.A. Bogdashov, Yu.V. Bykov, G.G. Denisov, A.G. Eremeev, M.Yu. Glyavin, V.V. Holoptsev, E.A. Kopelovich, A.G. Luchinin, M.V. Morozkin, I.V. Plotnikov, M.Yu. Shmelev, D.I. Sobolev, M.M. Troitsky
                       IAP/RAS, Nizhny Novgorod, Russia
M.I. Bakulin, E.V. Sokolov, E.A. Soluyanova, E.M. Tai
                       GYCOM Ltd, Nizhny Novgorod, Russia

 


 

Funding: The study was supported by IAP RAS project 0035-2014-0024. The part of works, related to control of output power were partially supported by the Russian Federation President Grant No. MK-3452.2017.8.
In recent years high power microwave radiation is applied for wide range of applications like ceramic sintering, nano-powder, diamond discs and films production, electron cyclotron resonance ion sources. The gyrotron complexes created at IAP RAS jointly with GYCOM Ltd. allow creating materials with new qualities and do not have any analogues with similar functional capabilities. These complexes are installed at the research centers of Russia, Germany, USA, China, France and Japan. Typical microwave power of these setups obtained several tens kW with efficiency up to 40% (up to 65% with energy recovery) at the frequency range 24 ’ 84 GHz. The output power of gyrotrons can be smoothly regulated from about 0.5% to 100% of the full power in CW or pulsed mode. The next ambitious steps are broadband frequency tuning and fast power modulation. The results in the development of the electron cyclotron resonance ion sources have proven the potential of an increase in the operating frequency for the production of high intensity multicharge ion beams. The report present detail description of the 45 GHz system for FECRAL ECRIS, its key components and obtained experimental results.

 






Slides THOCA01 [14.005 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




