













HIAT2015 - Table of Session: WEM2I (Wednesday Morning Invited Oral 2)


WEM2I —  Wednesday Morning Invited Oral 2   (09-Sep-15   11:00—12:00)
Chair: N.R. Lobanov, Research School of Physics and Engineering, Australian National University, Canberra, Australian Capitol Territory, Australia


Paper
Title
Page



WEM2I01
The ISAC-II Linac Performance
175


 

M. Marchetto, S. Kiy, R.E. Laxdal, Y. Ma, O. Shelbaya, Z.Y. Yao, V. Zvyagintsev
                       TRIUMF, Canada's National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics, Vancouver, Canada

 


 

Funding: Funded under a contribution agreement with NRC (National Research Council Canada)
The ISAC-II superconducting linac is operating for almost a decade. The first installation includes twenty cavities housed in five cryomodules. The Phase II upgrade consisted of twenty additional cavities housed in three cryomodules. The upgrade brings the linac to a nominal 40 MV of effective accelerating voltage according to design specification. Moreover the upgrade was the first step to qualify a Canadian vendor (PAVAC) for the production of superconducting cavities. Each cryomodule includes bulk niobium quarter wave resonators and a 9T superconducting solenoid for transverse focusing. The linac features a single vacuum space. Over the years the linac has experienced vacuum incidents and high power rf cable failures in vacuum that were addressed during maintenance. In a recent maintenance program cavities from a single cryomodule were re-etched to improve performance. Future cavity treatments are in the plan but they are restricted by the scientific program. The status of the linac, performance and future development plans will be presented. Reliability and availability of the linac will be discussed, metrics that will become even more important with the advent of ARIEL.

 






Slides WEM2I01 [14.869 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper to 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text, 
              ※ RIS/RefMan, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



WEM2I02
Low Energy Underground Accelerators
 


 

D. Robertson
                       University of Notre Dame, Indiana, USA
M. Couder, M. Wiescher
                       Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Iowa, USA
U. Greife
                       Colorado School of Mines, Golden, USA
F. Strieder
                       South Dakota School of Mines and Technology, Rapid City, USA

 


 

For many years, the drive of nuclear astrophysics has been to extend the limits of reaction measurements into the burning regime of astrophysical interest. As current laboratory experiments approach the stellar burning window, the rapid drop off of cross-sections is a significant barrier and drives the need for higher intensity accelerators, more robust and isotopically enriched target material and lower background interference. The natural background suppression of underground accelerator facilities enables the extension of current experimental data to the lower energies needed. New facilities around the world are coming on-line with a view to capitalizing on underground cosmic-ray suppression, each offering unique techniques and capabilities.

 






Slides WEM2I02 [12.991 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper to 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text, 
              ※ RIS/RefMan, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




