













HIAT2015 - Table of Session: TUA1C (Tuesday Afternoon Contributed Oral 1)


TUA1C —  Tuesday Afternoon Contributed Oral 1   (08-Sep-15   14:30—15:00)
Chair: N. Fukunishi, RIKEN Nishina Center, Wako, Japan


Paper
Title
Page



TUA1C01
A Pulsed Gas Stripper for Stripping of High-Intensity, Heavy-Ion Beams at 1.4 MeV/u at the GSI UNILAC
144


 

P. Scharrer, W.A. Barth, Ch.E. Düllmann, J. Khuyagbaatar
                       HIM, Mainz, Germany
W.A. Barth, M. Bevcic, Ch.E. Düllmann, L. Groening, K.P. Horn, E. Jäger, J. Khuyagbaatar, J. Krier, P. Scharrer, A. Yakushev
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
Ch.E. Düllmann, P. Scharrer
                       Mainz University, Mainz, Germany

 


 

The GSI UNILAC in combination with SIS18 will serve as a high-current, heavy-ion injector for the future FAIR. It has to meet high demands in terms of beam brilliance at a low duty factor (100 mus beam pulse length, 2.7 Hz repetition rate). An advanced 1.4 MeV/u gas stripper setup has been developed, aiming at an enhanced yield into the required charge states. The setup delivers short, high-density gas pulses in synchronization with the beam pulse. This provides an increased gas density at a reduced gas load for the differential pumping system. In recent measurements, high-intensity, heavy-ion beams of U4+ were successfully stripped and separated for the desired charge state. The modified stripper setup, as well as major results, are presented, including a comparison to the present gas stripper based on a N2 gas-jet. The stripping efficiency into the desired 28+ charge state was significantly increased by up to 60 % using a hydrogen stripper target while the beam quality remained similar.

 






Slides TUA1C01 [2.035 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper to 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text, 
              ※ RIS/RefMan, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




