













HIAT2018 - Table of Session: FRXAA (Applications)


FRXAA —  Applications   (26-Oct-18   09:00—09:30)



Paper
Title
Page



FRXAA01
Superconducting Rotating-Gantry for Carbon-Ion Radiotherapy at HIMAC
 


 

Y. Iwata, T. Furukawa, Y. Hara, S. Matsuba, T. Murakami, K. Noda, N.S. Saotome, S. Sato, T. Shirai
                       NIRS, Chiba-shi, Japan
N. Amemiya
                       Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan
H. Arai, T. Fujimoto
                       AEC, Chiba, Japan
T.F. Fujita, K. Mizushima
                       National Institute of Radiological Sciences, Chiba, Japan
S. Matsuba
                       HSRC, Higashi-Hiroshima, Japan
T. Obana
                       NIFS, Gifu, Japan
T. Ogitsu
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
T. Orikasa, S. Takayama
                       Toshiba, Yokohama, Japan
Y. Saraya, R. Tansho
                       QST-NIRS, Chiba, Japan

 


 

A superconducting rotating-gantry for carbon-ion radiotherapy was developed. This isocentric rotating gantry can transport carbon ions with the maximum energy of 430 MeV/u to an isocenter with irradiation angles of over ±180 degrees, and is further capable of performing 3D raster-scanning irradiation. The combined-function superconducting magnets were employed for the gantry. The superconducting magnets with optimized beam optics allowed a compact gantry design with a large scan size at the isocenter; the length and the radius of the gantry are approximately 13 and 5.5 m, respectively, and the total weight is estimated to be approximately 300 tons. A construction of the gantry structure began since 2014, and the installation of the entire system to the HIMAC complex was completed by the end of September, 2015. Beam commissioning began since October, 2015, and beam tuning for carbon beams having energies of between 56-430 MeV/u over the entire gantry angles was performed. With the successful results of the beam commissioning, the gantry is being used for treatment operation since May 2017. We will present the overview of the development as well as the present status of the gantry.

 






Slides FRXAA01 [13.798 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




