













HIAT2015 - Table of Session: TUA1I (Tuesday Afternoon Invited Oral 1)


TUA1I —  Tuesday Afternoon Invited Oral 1   (08-Sep-15   13:30—14:30)
Chair: N. Fukunishi, RIKEN Nishina Center, Wako, Japan


Paper
Title
Page



TUA1I01
Development of a Liquid Lithium Charge Stripper for FRIB
134


 

F. Marti, P. Guetschow, J.A. Nolen
                       FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA
Y. Momozaki, J.A. Nolen, C.B. Reed
                       ANL, Argonne, Illinois, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science under Cooperative Agreement DE-SC0000661
The Facility for Rare Isotope Beams (FRIB) being built at Michigan State University for the US DOE will deliver heavy ion beams with beam power of 400 kW. SRF cavities accelerate the ions to energies above 200 MeV/u. At energies of 16-20 MeV/u a charge stripper increases the charge state just before the first bend in the linac (a second bend is located downstream). Due to the high power deposition on the stripping media and radiation damage solid strippers are not practical. The baseline design selected a liquid lithium film stripper. This stripper has been developed in collaboration with Argonne National Laboratory. A stripper module is being built at MSU with an estimated completion date of December 2015. We plan to operate the stripper outside the FRIB tunnel for 18 months to learn the reliability and stability issues before final installation in the accelerator.

 






Slides TUA1I01 [3.576 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper to 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text, 
              ※ RIS/RefMan, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



TUA1I02
Upgrade of the UNILAC for FAIR
139


 

L. Groening, A. Adonin, W.A. Barth, X. Du, R. Hollinger, E. Jäger, M. Kaiser, S. Mickat, A. Rubin, P. Scharrer, B. Schlitt, G. Schreiber, H. Vormann, C. Xiao, C. Zhang
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
Ch.E. Düllmann
                       HIM, Mainz, Germany
H. Hähnel, U. Ratzinger, A. Seibel, R. Tiede
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany

 


 

The UNIversal Linear Accelerator (UNILAC) at GSI has served as injector for all ion species from protons for uranium for the past four decades. In order to meet the requirements for the upcoming FAIR project the machine has to be revised. A dedicated uranium source branch is under design. It has to provide up to 20 emA of 238U4+ at 2.2 keV/u to the entrance of the RFQ. The latter needs to be re-designed aiming at lower electric surface fields for sparking mitigation. The operational flexibility of the subsequent MEBT will be enhanced. We report on recent achievements on enhancing the stripping efficiency from U4+ to U28+ by employing a pulsed jet of hydrogen gas. The stripper section may also include an option to provide a round-to-flat adapter shrinking the horizontal emittance at the expense of the vertical one. The existing post-stripper DTL is in operation since 40 years and will be fully re-designed. An optimized drift tube shape increases the shunt impedance, varying stem orientations shall mitigate parasite rf-modes, and asymetric and enhanced quadrupole focusing will preserve the beam flatness. The contribution will describe the various upgrade measures.

 






Slides TUA1I02 [4.477 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper to 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text, 
              ※ RIS/RefMan, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




