













IBIC2012 - Table of Session: THCB (Contributed Talk in Thursday-B)


THCB —  Contributed Talk in Thursday-B   (04-Oct-12   10:40—11:30)



Paper
Title
Page



THCB01
Electron-Lens Test Stand Instrumentation Progress
602


 

T.A. Miller, J.N. Aronson, D.M. Gassner, X. Gu, A.I. Pikin, P. Thieberger
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by B.S.A, LLC under contract No. DE-AC02-98CH10886 with the U.S. Department of Energy.
In preparation for installation of Electron Lenses into RHIC, planned for late 2012, a working test stand is in use testing the performance of the gun, collector, modulator, instrumentation and controls. While testing & operating the instrumentation, both progress and pitfalls were encountered. Results are presented from issues including ground loop signals generated by the DCCTs, static magnetic field interference, competing YAG screen illumination techniques, YAG crystal damage during beam operation, performance of the four quadrant beam scraper electrodes, and challenges in measuring beam current in conductors. Working knowledge and insight into each of these systems has been gained through difficulties leading to success. These insights are presented with supporting data and images.

 






Slides THCB01 [32.453 MB]
            
 


 



THCB02
Twisting Wire Scanner
607


 

V. Gharibyan, A. Delfs, I. Krouptchenkov, D. Nölle, H. Tiessen, M. Werner, K. Wittenburg
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

A new type of 'two-in-one' wire scanner is proposed. Recent advances in linear motors' technology make it possible to combine translational and rotational movements. This will allow to scan the beam in two perpendicular directions using a single driving motor and a special fork attached to it. Vertical or horizontal mounting will help to escape problems associated with the 45 deg scanners. Test results of the translational part with linear motors will be presented.

 






Slides THCB02 [5.591 MB]
            
 


 




