













IBIC2014 - Table of Session: THCXB (General Diagnostics)


THCXB —  General Diagnostics   (18-Sep-14   09:30—10:10)
Chair: A. Jansson, ESS, Lund, Sweden


Paper
Title
Page



THCXB1
Cross-Calibration of Three Electron Cloud Density Detectors at CesrTA
722


 

J.P. Sikora, J.R. Calvey, J.A. Crittenden
                       Cornell University (CLASSE), Cornell Laboratory for Accelerator-Based Sciences and Education, Ithaca, New York, USA

 


 

Funding: This work is supported by the US National Science Foundation PHY-0734867, PHY-1002467, and the US Department of Energy DE-FC02-08ER41538, DE-SC0006505.
Measurements of electron cloud density using three detector types are compared under the same beam conditions at the same location in the Cornell Electron Storage Ring (CESR). Two of the detectors sample the flux of cloud electrons incident on the beam-pipe wall. The Retarding Field Analyzer (RFA) records the time-averaged charge flux and has a retarding grid that can be biased to select high energy electrons. The Shielded Button Electrode (SBE) samples the electron flux without a retarding grid, acquiring signals with sub-nanosecond resolution. The third detector uses resonant microwaves and measures the electron cloud density within the beam-pipe through the cloud-induced shift in resonant frequency. The analysis will include comparison of the output from POSINST and ECLOUD simulations of electron cloud buildup. These time-sliced particle-in-cell 2D modeling codes – simulating photoelectron production, secondary emission and cloud dynamics – have been expanded to include the electron acceptance of the RFA and SBE detectors in order to model the measured signals. The measurements were made at the CESR storage ring, which has been reconfigured as a test accelerator (CesrTA) providing electron or positron beams ranging in energy from 2 GeV to 5 GeV.

 






Slides THCXB1 [3.240 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper to 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text, 
              ※ IS/RefMan, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



THCXB2
Performance Evaluation of the Intra-Bunch Feedback System at J-PARC Main Ring
727


 

K.G. Nakamura
                       Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan
Y.H. Chin, T. Koseki, H. Kuboki, M. Okada, M. Tobiyama
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
Y. Shobuda
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-Mura, Naka-Gun, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan
T. Toyama
                       J-PARC, KEK & JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan

 


 

Intra-bunch feedback system in J-PARC (Japan Proton Accelerator Complex) Main Ring(MR) has been developed for suppression of head-tail motion and reduction of beam loss. This system consists of mainly BPM, signal processing circuit (iGp12), power amplifiers, and stripline kickers. These components were fabricated and installed in April of 2014. This system succeeded in suppressing the internal bunch motion caused by injection kicker error in the 3GeV constant-energy operation, and showed shorter damping time compared to the bunch by bunch feedback system, which is currently working in the normal operation. In this paper, we will report the performance of the system by comparison with simulations.

 






Slides THCXB2 [6.430 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper to 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text, 
              ※ IS/RefMan, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




