













IBIC2013 - Table of Session: TUPC (Tuesday Poster Session)


TUPC —  Tuesday Poster Session   (17-Sep-13   16:00—18:30)



Paper
Title
Page



TUPC01
Overview of the European Spallation Source Warm Linac Beam Instrumentation
346


 

B. Cheymol, C. Böhme, I. Dolenc Kittelmann, H. Hassanzadegan, A. Jansson, T.J. Shea, L. Tchelidze
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden

 


 

The normal conducting front end of the European Spallation source will accelerate the beam coming for the ion source up to 90 MeV. The ESS front end will consist in an ion source, a low energy beam transport line, a radio frequency quadrupole, a medium energy beam transport line and a drift tube linac. The warm linac will be equipped with beam diagnostics to measure the beam position, the transverse and longitudinal profile as well as beam current and beam losses. This will provide efficient operation of ESS, and ensure keeping the losses at a low level. This paper gives an overview of the beam diagnostics design and their main features.

 


 



TUPC02
Proton Beam Measurement Strategy for the 5 MW European Spallation Source Target
349


 

T.J. Shea, C. Böhme, B. Cheymol, H. Hassanzadegan, E.J. Pitcher
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden
S.D. Gallimore
                       STFC/RAL/ISIS, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom
H.D. Thomsen
                       ISA, Aarhus, Denmark

 


 

Approaching construction phase in Lund, Sweden, the European Spallation Source (ESS) consists of a superconducting linear accelerator that delivers a 2 GeV, 5 MW proton beam to a rotating tungsten target. As a long pulse neutron source, the ESS does not require an accumulator ring, so the 2.86 ms pulses, with repetition rate of 14 Hz arrive directly from the linear accelerator with low emittance. To avoid damage to target station components, this intense beam must be actively expanded by quadrupoles that produce a centimetre size beamlet, combined with a fast rastering system that paints the beamlet into a 160 mm by 60 mm footprint. Upstream of and within the target station, a suite of devices will measure the beam's density, halo, position, current, and time-of-arrival. Online density measurements are particularly important for machine protection, but present significant challenges. Diverse techniques will provide this measurement within the target station, based upon secondary emission grids, ionisation monitors, luminescent coatings, and Helium gas luminescence. Requirements, system descriptions, and performance estimates will be presented.

 


 



TUPC03
Commissioning and Diagnostics Development for the New Short-Pulse Injector Laser at FLASH
353


 

T. Plath, J. Rönsch-Schulenburg, J. Roßbach
                       Uni HH, Hamburg, Germany
H. Schlarb, S. Schreiber, B. Steffen
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

In order to extend the parameter range of FLASH towards shorter electron pulses down to a few fs SASE pulses, shorter bunches with very small charges of a few tens of picocoulombs are necessary directly at the photo injector. Therefore a new injector laser delivering pulses of 1 to 5 ps has been installed and commissioned. The influence of the laser parameters on the electron beam was studied theoretically. In this paper we discuss the required laser beam diagnostics and present measurements of critical laser and electron beam parameters.

 






Poster TUPC03 [1.076 MB]
            
 


 



TUPC05
Laser and Photocathode Gun Instrumentation for the ASTA Accelerator Test Stand at SLAC
357


 

J. Sheppard, W.J. Corbett, S. Gilevich, E.N. Jongewaard, J.R. Lewandowski, P. Stefan, T. Vecchione, S.P. Weathersby, F. Zhou
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

An accelerator test stand has been constructed at SLAC to characterize laser-assisted photocathode processing, electron beam emission physics and front-end rf gun performance. The objective of the research program is to identify definitive ‘recipes’ for high-reliability cathode preparation resulting in high quantum efficiency and low beam emittance. In this paper we report on timing, optics and instrumentation for the Ti:Sapphire drive laser, diagnostics for the 1.6 cell photocathode gun and instrumentation for the resulting electron beam. The latter include a Faraday cup charge monitor, scintillator screen beam imaging for direct emittance measurements, and high-resolution imaging of the photocathode surface to diagnose the impact of laser processing for enhanced quantum efficiency.

 


 



TUPC06
Status of Beam Diagnostic Systems for TRIUMF Electron Linac
361


 

V.A. Verzilov, P.S. Birney, D.P. Cameron, P. Dirksen, J.V. Holek, S.Y. Kajioka, S. Kellogg, M. Lenckowski, M. Minato, W.R. Rawnsley
                       TRIUMF, Canada's National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics, Vancouver, Canada
J.M. Abernathy, D. Karlen, D.W. Storey
                       Victoria University, Victoria, B.C., Canada

 


 

TRIUMF laboratory is currently in a phase of the construction of a superconducting 50 MeV 10 mA cw electron LINAC to drive photo-fission based rare radioactive isotope beam (RIB) production. The project imposes certain technical challenges on various accelerator systems including beam diagnostics. In the first place these are a high beam power and strongly varying operating modes ranging from microsecond beam pulses to the cw regime. Diagnostics development interleaves with the construction of the diagnostics instrumentation required for the test facility which delivered the first beam in Fall of 2011. The paper reports the present status of various diagnostics systems along with measurement results obtained at the test facility.

 


 



TUPC07
Design and Impedance Optimization of the SIRIUS BPM Button
365


 

H.O.C. Duarte, S.R. Marques, L. Sanfelici
                       LNLS, Campinas, Brazil

 


 

Design of several BPM Buttons is presented with detail impedance, heat transfer and mechanical analysis. Special attention is given to the application of ceramics as materials with low relative permittivity inside of the BPM Button and to the geometric shape of the BPM Button. The heat dissipation is evaluated based on the loss factor calculated for a 2.65mm bunch length. The narrow-band impedance is discussed and its dependence on applied ceramic materials is compared.

 






Poster TUPC07 [1.715 MB]
            
 


 



TUPC08
Design and Impedance Optimization of the LNLS-UVX Longitudinal Kicker Cavity
369


 

L. Sanfelici, H.O.C. Duarte, S.R. Marques
                       LNLS, Campinas, Brazil

 


 

Performance evolution of parameters achieved during the electromagnetic design of the longitudinal kicker cavity for the LNLS UVX storage ring is presented. The effort on the electromagnetic optimization process of the heavily loaded cavity has been made to reach the required electrodynamic parameters of the kicker. The results for three different geometries are compared and a good compromise between the longitudinal shunt impedance and the effect of the longitudinal Higher Order Modes (HOM’s) on beam stability has been found.

 






Poster TUPC08 [1.365 MB]
            
 


 



TUPC09
Longitudinal and Transverse Feedback Systems for the BEPCII Storage Rings
373


 

J. Yue, J.S. Cao, L. Ma, Y.F. Sui, L. Wang, X.Y. Zhao
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

In order to cure the transverse and longitudinal coupled bunch instabilities caused by higher order modes of RF cavities and resistive wall impedance in the BEPCII storage rings, two type bunch by bunch feedback system – a longitudinal feedback system and a transverse feedback system are used. The LFB system are digital system produced by Dimtel Company, the longitudinal kicker is drift-tube type borrowed from SLAC. An analog bunch-by-bunch transverse feedback system was designed and used*. The main components are two sets of beam oscillation detectors, betatron phase adjuster, notch filter and stripline kicker. This paper will describe the achieved results of curing the coupled bunch instabilities by using the LFB and TFB together with current status.
* Performance of the Transverse Coupled-Bunch Feedback System in the BEPCII Storage Ring, Proc. of 40th ICFA ABDW, 2008

 






Poster TUPC09 [0.356 MB]
            
 


 



TUPC10
Operation of Diamond Light Source XBPMs with Zero Bias
376


 

C. Bloomer, G. Rehm
                       Diamond, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom

 


 

Tungsten blade X-ray Beam Position Monitors (XBPMs) have been used at Diamond Light Source since 2007, however a long-standing problem with these devices has been the growth of leakage current through the ceramic insulation within the XBPMs over time, often becoming greater than 10% of the signal current after a few years of operation. The growth of these leakage currents has been found to be exacerbated by the application of a negative bias (-70V) to the tungsten blades, a bias suggested for optimum position sensitivity. This bias is applied in order to accelerate free electrons away from the surface of the blades and to prevent cross-talk, however, we have found that the operation of the XBPMs without bias has negligible impact on our measurements. Removal of the bias has been found to prevent the growth of leakage currents over time, and can also significantly reduce the cost of our signal acquisition by removing the need for a low-current amplifier with a bias supply.

 






Poster TUPC10 [0.455 MB]
            
 


 



TUPC11
Beam-Based Measurement of ID Taper Impedance at Diamond
380


 

V.V. Smaluk, R. Bartolini, R.T. Fielder, G. Rehm
                       Diamond, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom

 


 

New insertion devices (IDs) are being designed now for a Diamond upgrade. One of the important topics of the design is the coupling impedance of the ID vacuum chamber movable tapers. To get a complete and reliable information of the impedance, analytical estimations, numerical simulation and beam-based measurement have been performed. The impedance of an existing ID taper geometrically similar to the new one has been measured using the orbit bump method. It turns out that in spite of the small magnitude (a few um) of orbit distortion to be observed in this case, the BPM resolution is sufficient for this measurement. The measurement results in comparison with simulation data are discussed in this paper.

 


 



TUPC12
Status of the Stripline Beam Position Monitor Development for the CLIC Drive Beam
384


 

A. Benot-Morell, L. Søby, M. Wendt
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
A. Benot-Morell, A. Faus-Golfe
                       IFIC, Valencia, Spain
J.M. Nappa, S. Vilalte
                       IN2P3-LAPP, Annecy-le-Vieux, France
S.R. Smith
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Funding: MINECO contract FPA2010-21456-C02-01, SEIC-2010-00028, U.S. Department of Energy contract DE-AC02-76SF00515
In collaboration with SLAC, LAPP and IFIC, a first prototype of a strip-line Beam Position Monitor (BPM) for the CLIC Drive Beam and its associated readout electronics has been successfully tested in the CLIC Test Facility linac (CTF3) at CERN. In addition, a modified prototype with downstream terminated strip-lines is under development to better suppress any unwanted RF signal interference. This paper presents the results of the beam tests, the most relevant design aspects for the modified strip-line BPM version and its expected performance.

 






Poster TUPC12 [1.729 MB]
            
 


 



TUPC13
System Overview and Design Considerations of the BPM System of the ESS Linac
388


 

H. Hassanzadegan, A. Jansson, R. Zeng
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden
A.J. Johansson
                       Lund University, Lund, Sweden
K. Strniša
                       Cosylab, Ljubljana, Slovenia
A. Young
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

The ESS Linac will include in total more than 140 Beam Position Monitors of different sizes and types. The BPM system needs to measure the beam position, phase and intensity in all foreseen beam modes with a pulse rate of 14 Hz, duration of 2.86 ms and amplitude ranging form 5 mA to 62.5 mA. With respect to the BPM connection to the Machine Interlock System, the total response time must be less than 10 us. The signal level variations from one BPM to another along the Linac should be as small as possible to meet the requirements on the analog gain of the front-end electronics and the dynamic range of the digitizer card input. The other requirement is that the BPM system needs to give at least a rough estimation of the beam position and phase, even if the beam is significantly debouched, ex. during the Linac tuning phase. These requirements and their impact on the design of the BPM detector, the analog front-end electronics and the selection of the digitizer card are discussed in this paper along with a general description of the BPM system.

 






Poster TUPC13 [3.050 MB]
            
 


 



TUPC14
Development of a Low-Beta Button BPM for PXIE Project
392


 

A. Lunin, N. Eddy, T.N. Khabiboulline, V.A. Lebedev, V.P. Yakovlev
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

The button BPM is under development for a low beta section of the Project X Injector Experiment (PXIE) at Fermilab. The presented paper includes an analytical estimation of the BPM performance as well a direct wakefield simulation with CST Particle Studio (on a hexahedral mesh). In addition we present a novel approach of a low beta beam interaction with BPM electrodes realized with ANSYS HFSS TD-solver on unstructured tetrahedral mesh. Both methods show a good agreement of BPM output signals for various beam parameters. Finally we describe the signal processing scheme and the electronics we are going to use.

 






Poster TUPC14 [1.051 MB]
            
 


 



TUPC15
BPM  Electronics Upgrade for the Fermilab H− Linac Based Upon Custom Downconverter Electronics
396


 

E.S.M. McCrory, N. Eddy, F.G.G. Garcia, S.U. Hansen, T. Kiper, M.Z. Sliczniak
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

As part of the Fermilab Proton Improvement Plan, the readout electronics for the Fermilab H− Linac has been upgraded. The new custom electronics provide a low cost solution to process the 2nd harmonic of the RF at 402.5MHz. A single 4 channel NIM-bin module is used to readout each 4 plate stripline BPM pickup with each module being locked to an external 805MHz machine reference from the low level RF. For each BPM a number of measurements are provided including average horizontal and vertical position, average intensity, and average relative phase for variable pulse lengths from a few μs up to 50~usec. The system is being exploited in a number of ways with new operations applications.

 






Poster TUPC15 [1.731 MB]
            
 


 



TUPC16
Bunch-by-Bunch Feedback and Diagnostics at BESSY II
399


 

A. Schälicke, F. Falkenstern, R. Müller
                       HZB, Berlin, Germany

 


 

At the light source BESSY II new digital bunch-by-bunch feedback systems have been put into operation in January 2013, replacing the existing analog as well as the obsolete digital systems. From the first days of operation the new system successfully suppresses transverse and longitudinal beam instabilities in wide range of machine parameters. The system offers also many new diagnostics opportunities, these include the analysis of instability modes, measurement of the feedback loop gain, and determination of the transfer function. A method to systematically optimise the output amplifier response function with the help of shaper coefficients for the optimal bunch separation has been developed. In addition the analysis of the input data stream allows a passive determination of machine properties like betatron and synchrotron frequencies as well as the longitudinal phases for every bunch. The integration of external triggers permits the analysis of postmortem data, the characterisation of beam-loss events, and monitoring of the injection process. In this contribution first operational experience, the developed data analysis techniques and experimental data will be presented.

 






Poster TUPC16 [56.767 MB]
            
 


 



TUPC17
A Multiconductor Transmission Line Model for the BPMs at the 3-50 Beam Transport Line in J-PARC
403


 

T. Toyama, D.A. Arakara, M. Tejima
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
K. Hanamura
                       Mitsubishi Electric System & Service Co., Ltd, Tsukuba, Japan
Y. Hashimoto, K. Satou
                       J-PARC, KEK & JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan

 


 

We have developed an accurate and efficient analysis method with a multi-conductor transmission line model.  This method combines the two-dimensional electrostatic analysis including beams in the transverse plane and the transmission line analysis in the longitudinal direction.  The loads are also included in the boundary condition of the transmission line analysis.  Calculation of 2D electrostatic fields can be easily performed with the boundary element method. Taking low frequency limit of the formula, we have obtained an accurate expectation of the BPMs of 200 mm diameter at the 3-50 Beam Transport Line in J-PARC.

 


 



TUPC18
Development of a Highly Efficient Energy Kicker for Longitudinal Bunch-by-Bunch Feedback
407


 

M. Masaki, T. Fujita, K. Kobayashi, T. Nakamura, H. Ohkuma, M. Oishi, S. Sasaki, M. Shoji
                       JASRI/SPring-8, Hyogo-ken, Japan

 


 

A highly efficient energy kicker has been developed for longitudinal bunch-by-bunch feedback to suppress synchrotron oscillation of a high-current single electron bunch, and to cure possible longitudinal multi-bunch instability if lower beam energy is to be adopted for emittance reduction and electric power saving in a future upgrade plan of SPring-8. Through the performance test using a prototype kicker, a new water-cooled copper kicker was designed and fabricated, and it has been installed in the storage ring. The new kicker consists of three cells with each cavity length of 96 mm, its resonant frequency of 1.65 GHz, which is 3.25 times of RF frequency of the storage ring, and low Q-factor of 4.2. In beam kick test, the synchrotron oscillation amplitude of 0.64 ps was excited by kick voltage with continuous amplitude modulation at synchrotron frequency when the RF input power was 132 W/3cells. The kick voltage evaluated from the experimental result is 920 V/3cells. Shunt impedance of each kicker cell is estimated as 1.1 kΩ. As we intended, the shunt impedance per length is about three times higher than those of widely used waveguide overloaded cavity type kickers.

 






Poster TUPC18 [9.117 MB]
            
 


 



TUPC19
First Beam Tests of a Prototype Cavity Beam Position Monitor for the CLIC Main Beam
411


 

F.J. Cullinan, S.T. Boogert, A. Lyapin, J.R. Towler
                       JAI, Egham, Surrey, United Kingdom
W. Farabolini, T. Lefèvre, L. Søby, M. Wendt
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Beam position monitors (BPMs) throughout the CLIC (Compact Linear Collider) main linac and beam delivery system must routinely operate at 50 nm resolution and be able to make multiple position measurements within a single 156 ns long bunch train. A prototype cavity beam position monitor, designed to demonstrate this performance, has been tested on the probe beamline of CTF3 (the CLIC Test Facility). Sensitivity measurements of the dipole mode position cavity and of the monopole mode reference cavity have been made. The characteristics of signals from short and long bunch trains and the dominant systematic effects have also been studied.

 


 



TUPC20
Technologies and R&D for a High Resolution Cavity BPM for the CLIC Main Beam
415


 

J.R. Towler, T. Lefèvre, L. Søby, M. Wendt
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
S.T. Boogert, F.J. Cullinan, A. Lyapin
                       JAI, Egham, Surrey, United Kingdom

 


 

The Main Beam (MB) LINAC of the Compact Linear Collider (CLIC) requires a beam orbit measurement system with a high spatial (50 nm) and high temporal (50 ns) resolution to resolve the beam position within the 156 ns long bunch train, traveling on an energy-chirped, minimum dispersive trajectory. A 15 GHz prototype cavity BPM has been commissioned in the probe beam-line of the CTF3 CLIC Test Facility. The performance and technical details of this prototype installation are discussed in this paper, including the 15 GHz analog down-converter, the data acquisition and the control electronics and software. An R&D outlook is given for the next steps, which requires a system of 3 cavity BPMs to investigate the full resolution potential.

 


 



TUPC22
Cavity Beam Position Monitor in Multiple Bunch Operation for the ATF2 Interaction Point Region
419


 

Y.I. Kim, D.R. Bett, N. Blaskovic Kraljevic, S.T. Boogert, P. Burrows, G.B. Christian, M.R. Davis, A. Lyapin, C. Perry
                       JAI, Oxford, United Kingdom
J.C. Frisch, D.J. McCormick, J. Nelson, G.R. White
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA
Y. Honda, T. Tauchi, N. Terunuma, J. Urakawa
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

The Accelerator Test Facility 2 (ATF2) at KEK, Japan, is a scaled test beam line for the international linear collider (ILC) final focus system. There are two goals: firstly, to demonstrate focusing to 37 nm vertical beam size; secondly, to achieve a few nanometer level beam orbit stability at the focus point (the Interaction Point (IP)) in the vertical plane. High-resolution beam position monitors around the IP area (IPBPMs) have been developed in order to measure the electron beam position in that region with a resolution of a few nanometers in the vertical plane. Currently, the standard operation mode at ATF2 is single bunch, however, multiple bunch operation with a bunch spacing similar to the one foreseen for the ILC (around 300 ns) is also possible. IPBPMs have a low Q value resulting in a decay time of about 30 ns, and so should be able to measure the beam position of individual bunches without any significant performance degradation. The IPBPMs in the ATF2 extraction beam line have been tested in multibunch regime. This paper analyses the signals, processing methods and results for this mode.

 






Poster TUPC22 [1.050 MB]
            
 


 



TUPC24
The Design Strategy of Orbit Feedback System in the TPS
423


 

C.H. Kuo, J. Chen, Y.-S. Cheng, P.C. Chiu, K.T. Hsu, K.H. Hu, C.Y. Wu
                       NSRRC, Hsinchu, Taiwan

 


 

TPS (Taiwan Photon Source) is a 3 GeV synchrotron light source which is being constructed at NSRRC. The BPM electronic is based on uTCA platform, is used for various request and function reasons. The orbit feedback system design is based on open structure, modularization and highly integration. There are many advantages that orbit feedback system is embedded in the BPM crate with FPGA modules. High throughput backplane, data transfer and processing support rich function for waveform record, diagnostic, beam study and transient analysis. The design and implementation result of the system will be reported in this conference.

 


 



TUPC25
Design of the SwissFEL BPM System
427


 

B. Keil, R. Baldinger, R. Ditter, W. Koprek, R. Kramert, F. Marcellini, G. Marinkovic, M. Roggli, M. Rohrer, M. Stadler, D.M. Treyer
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

SwissFEL is a Free Electron Laser (FEL) facility being constructed at PSI, based on a 5.8GeV normally conducting main linac. A photocathode gun will generate two bunches with 28ns spacing at 100Hz repetition rate, with a nominal charge range of 10-200pC. A fast beam distribution kicker will allow to distribute one bunch to a soft X-ray undulator line and the other bunch to a 0.1nm hard X-ray undulator line. The SwissFEL electron beam position monitor (BPM) system will employ three different types of dual-resonator cavity BPMs, since the accelerator has three different beam pipe apertures. In the injector and main linac (38mm and 16mm aperture), 3.3GHz cavity BPMs will be used, where a low Q of ~40 was chosen to minimize crosstalk of the two bunches*. In the undulators that just have single bunches and 8mm BPM aperture, a higher Q will be chosen. This paper reports on the development status of the SwissFEL BPM system. Synergies as well as differences to the E-XFEL BPM system** will also be highlighted.
* F. Marcellini et al., "Design of Cavity BPM Pickups For SwissFEL", Proc. IBIC'12, Tsukuba, Japan, 2012. ** B. Keil et al., "The European XFEL BPM System", Proc. IPAC'10, Kyoto, Japan, 2010.

 






Poster TUPC25 [1.074 MB]
            
 


 



TUPC26
Beam-line Diagnostics at the Front End Test Stand (FETS), Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Oxfordshire, UK
431


 

G.E. Boorman, S.M. Gibson
                       Royal Holloway, University of London, Surrey, United Kingdom
G.E. Boorman, S.M. Gibson
                       JAI, Egham, Surrey, United Kingdom
R.T.P. D'Arcy, S. Jolly
                       UCL, London, United Kingdom
C. Gabor
                       STFC/RAL/ASTeC, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom
S.R. Lawrie, A.P. Letchford
                       STFC/RAL/ISIS, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom

 


 

The H− ion source and beam-line at FETS will require the beam current and beam position to be continually monitored. Current transformer toroids will measure the beam current and beam position monitors (BPM) will determine the beam position. The ion source delivers pulses at a rate of 50Hz with a current up to 60mA, each pulse is 2ms long, and a 324MHz micro-bunch structure imposed by the radio frequency quadrapole (RFQ) accelerating structure. The toroid outputs will be acquired on a fast oscilloscope. The BPM design is still under consideration (shorted strip-line or button type) but the processing for both types is similar and has been designed, with simulated measurements made. Each BPM uses four pickups, at a frequency of 324MHz, which are mixed using RF electronics to an intermediate frequency of 10.125MHz. The resulting signals are then digitized at 40.500MHz and processed in an FPGA to produce the position and phase of the beam at each BPM location, with a precision of better than 100μm and 0.05rad. The measurements from the toroids and BPMs will be via EPICS servers at every pulse.

 






Poster TUPC26 [0.660 MB]
            
 


 



TUPC28
Strip Line Monitor design for the ISIS Proton Synchrotron using the FEA program HFSS
435


 

S.J. Payne
                       STFC/RAL/ISIS, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom

 


 

This paper reports the development of a strip line monitor for the ISIS accelerator main ring. The strip line is still in the design phase and the work reported here is the results of the FEA programme HFSS. The strip line will eventually form part of a beam instability feedback system and will be used to control instabilities both in the current ISIS machine and for all future ISIS upgrades where higher intensities and energies could be realised. The strip line consists of two pairs of 550mm by 160mm broad flat electrodes configured to allow damping in both the horizontal and vertical planes. The paper describes the efforts to achieve a bandwidth of >260MHz which will allow the feedback system deal with instabilities such as those caused by electron clouds. Design of the electrodes including matching of the feed throughs to the electrodes , concerns of materials for the electrode supports are considered. Also considered are methods used to improved inter-electrode decoupling (to better than -30db) . Results in the form of scattering parameters, smith charts, time domain reflectivity and shunt impedances will be presented.

 


 



TUPC29
Grounded Coplanar Waveguide Transmission Lines as Pickups for Beam Position Monitoring in Particle Accelerators
438


 

A. Penirschke, A. Angelovski, R. Jakoby
                       TU Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany
C. Gerth, U. Mavrič, D. Nölle, C. Sydlo, S. Vilcins
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

Funding: The work was supported by the MSK group at DESY Hamburg. The authors would like to thank the CST AG for providing the CST Software Package.
Energy beam position monitors (EBPM) based on grounded co-planar waveguide (GCPW) transmission lines have been designed for installation in the dispersive sections of the bunch compressor chicanes at the European XFEL. In combination with beam position monitors at the entrance and exit of the bunch compressor chicanes, measurements of the beam energy with single bunch resolution are feasible. The EBPM consists of transversely mounted stripline pickups in a rectangular beam pipe section. The signal detection for the measurement of the phases of the pulses at each end of the pickups is based on the standard down-conversion and phase detection scheme used for the low-level RF-system. A measurement resolution within the lower micrometer range can be achieved for input signal reflections at the pickup of less than -25 dB at 3 GHz. In this paper, simulation results of a novel pickup geometry utilized with GCPW pickup structures and optimized transitions to perpendicular mounted coaxial connectors are presented. The simulation results exhibit small reflection coefficients with reflected signal components having less than 2% of the peak voltage signal.

 


 



TUPC30
Design of Strip-Line BPM for Large Thermal Stress Conditions
442


 

P.E. Evtushenko, F.E. Hannon
                       JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA
B. Wustmann
                       HZDR, Dresden, Germany

 


 

Jefferson Lab FEL operates DC photo gun and GaAs photocathode. Operation with average current of several mA and sufficiently long cathode lifetime requires pressure in the gun region at least at the 10-11 Torr level or better. To achieve such low pressure the gun chamber and the adjacent beam line are baked for an extended period of time. This imposes an additional requirement of withstanding the bake on all diagnostic elements. Additionally, analyzing beam line temperature in a high current energy-recovering linac as ones considered for future light sources, it was found that due to the short bunch length the resistive wall losses can be very high, which can cause large thermal stress to the beam line elements. With these in mind we have designed a modified strip-line beam position monitor with a flexible connection between the stip-line electrode and the central pin of conflate mounted SMA feedthrough. The design is based on a BPM previously developed for radiation source ELBE. To make manufacturing of the BPM more precise and less costly, brazing is used in place of welding. Mechanical and microwave design of the BPM is presented with initial microwave characterization.

 


 



TUPC31
New Design of High Order Modes Electronics in MTCA.4 Standard for FLASH and the European XFEL
443


 

S. Bou Habib, A. Abramowicz
                       Warsaw University of Technology, Institute of Electronic Systems, Warsaw, Poland
N. Baboi, H. Schlarb
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

At free-electron linear accelerators, various High Order Modes (HOM) - both monopole and dipole - are excited. Extensive studies at DESY have shown that monitoring and analysis of some of these modes can be used for different applications including Beam Position Monitors (BPMs) and the reduction of wake-fields, the measurement of the beam phase with-respect-to RF signal in cavities, and the measurement of cavity alignment in the 1.3 GHz cryo-modules. Three frequencies were chosen for further experiments: the 1.3 GHz base frequency from the klystron, the 1.7 GHz dipole mode and the 2.4 GHz monopole mode. In order to realize the monitoring and analysis requirements, very high resolution measurements in amplitude, phase and shape (time resolution) are required for all three frequencies simultaneously. In this paper, we present the new HOM electronics prototype including a microstrip and stripline RF tri-passband filter design and measurements and the specialized MTCA.4 Rear Transition Module for HOM measurements with an ultra-fast high-resolution AMC digitizer.

 






Poster TUPC31 [1.226 MB]
            
 


 



TUPC33
Femtosecond Stable Laser-to-RF Phase Detection for Optical Synchronization Systems
447


 

T. Lamb, M.K. Czwalinna, M. Felber, C. Gerth, H. Schlarb, S. Schulz, C. Sydlo, M. Titberidze, F. Zummack
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany
E. Janas
                       Warsaw University of Technology, Institute of Electronic Systems, Warsaw, Poland
J. Szewiński
                       NCBJ, Świerk/Otwock, Poland

 


 

Optical reference distributions have become an indispensable asset for femtosecond precision synchronization of free-electron lasers. At FLASH and for the future European XFEL, laser pulses are distributed over large distances in round-trip time stabilized fibers to all critical facility sub-systems. Novel Laser-to-RF phase detectors will be used to provide ultra phase stable and long-term drift free microwave signals for the accelerator RF controls. In this paper, we present the recent progress on the design of a fully integrated and engineered version of the L2RF phase detector, together with first experimental results demonstrating so-far unrivaled performance.

 






Poster TUPC33 [18.910 MB]
            
 


 



TUPC34
Precision Synchronization of Optical Lasers Based on MTCA.4 Electronics
451


 

U. Mavrič, Ł. Butkowski, H.T. Duhme, M. Felber, M. Fenner, C. Gerth, P. Peier, H. Schlarb, B. Steffen
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany
T. Kozak, P. Predki
                       TUL-DMCS, Łódź, Poland

 


 

Optical laser have become an integral part of free-electron laser facilities for the purposes of electron bunch generation, external seeding, diagnostics and pump-probe experiments. The ultra-short electron bunches demand a high timing stability and precision synchronization of the optical lasers. In this paper, we present the proof-of-principle for a laser locking application implemented on a MTCA.4 platform. The system design relies on existing MTCA.4 compliant off-the-shelf modules that are available on the market or have been developed for other applications within the particle accelerator community. Besides performance and cost, we also tried to minimize the number of out-of-crate components. Preliminary measurements of laser locking at the FLASH and REGAE particle accelerators are presented, and an outlook for further system development in the area of laser-to-RF synchronization is given.

 


 



TUPC35
Upgrade of the Read-out Electronics for the Energy Beam Position Monitors at FLASH and European XFEL
454


 

U. Mavrič, C. Gerth, H. Schlarb
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany
A. Piotrowski
                       TUL-DMCS, Łódź, Poland

 


 

The dispersive sections of magnetic bunch compressor chicanes at free-electron lasers are excellent candidates for beam energy measurements. In the rectangular beamline sections of the bunch compressors at FLASH, energy beam position monitors (EBPM) with transversely mounted stripline pickups are installed. In this paper, we present the upgrade of the read-out electronics for signal detection of the EBPM installed at FLASH. The system is based on the MTCA.4 standard and reuses already available MTCA.4 compliant modules. This is also true for gateware and software development which fits into standard MTCA.4 framework development. The performance of the instrument was studied at FLASH during user operation and the results are presented.

 


 



TUPC36
First Realization and Performance Study of a Single-Shot Longitudinal Bunch Profile Monitor Utilizing a Transverse Deflecting Structure
456


 

M. Yan, C. Behrens, C. Gerth, R. Kammering, A. Langner, F. Obier, V. Rybnikov
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany
J. Wychowaniak
                       TUL-DMCS, Łódź, Poland

 


 

For the control and optimization of electron beam parameters at modern free-electron lasers (FEL), transverse deflecting structures (TDS) in combination with imaging screens have been widely used as robust longitudinal diagnostics with single-shot capability, high resolution and large dynamic range. At the free-electron laser in Hamburg (FLASH), a longitudinal bunch profile monitor utilizing a TDS has been realized. In combined use with a fast kicker magnet and an off-axis imaging screen, selection and measurement of a single bunch out of the bunch train with bunch spacing down to 1us can be achieved without affecting the remaining bunches which continue to generate FEL radiation during user operation. Technical obstacles have been overcome such as suppression of coherent transition radiation from the imaging screen, the continuous image acquisition and processing with the bunch train repetition rate of 10Hz. The monitor, which provides the longitudinal bunch profile and length, has been used routinely at FLASH. In this paper, we present the setup and operation of the longitudinal bunch profile monitor as well as the performance during user operation.

 


 



TUPC37
Presentation of the Smith-Purcell Experiment at SOLEIL
460


 

N. Delerue, J. Barros, S. Jenzer, M. Vieille Grosjean
                       LAL, Orsay, France
L. Cassinari, M. Labat
                       SOLEIL, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
G. Doucas, I.V. Konoplev, A. Reichold
                       JAI, Oxford, United Kingdom
A. Faus-Golfe, N. Fuster Martinez, J. Resta-López
                       IFIC, Valencia, Spain

 


 

Funding: Work supported by seed funding from Université Paris-Sud, program 'Attractivité' and by the French ANR under contract ANR-12-JS05-0003-01.
The potential of Coherent Smith-Purcell radiation as a longitudinal bunch profile monitor has already been demonstrated and has recently been extended to the sub-picosecond range. As a critical step toward the construction of a single shot bunch profile monitor using Coherent Smith-Purcell radiation it is important to measure very accurately the distribution of such radiation. Optimum background suppression techniques need to be found and relatively cheap detectors suitable for the far infra-red need to be qualified. To perform these tasks a test stand has been installed at the end of the linac of the synchrotron SOLEIL. This test stand and the first results from its commissioning will be presented here.

 


 



TUPC38
Longitudinal Profile Monitor Using Smith-Purcell Radiation: Recent Results from the E-203 Collaboration
464


 

N. Delerue, J. Barros, S. Le Corre, M. Vieille Grosjean
                       LAL, Orsay, France
H.L. Andrews
                       LANL, Los Alamos, New Mexico, USA
F. Bakkali Taheri, R. Bartolini, G. Doucas, I.V. Konoplev, C. Perry, A. Reichold, S. Stevenson
                       JAI, Oxford, United Kingdom
V. Bharadwaj, C.I. Clarke
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA
N. Fuster Martinez
                       IFIC, Valencia, Spain
M. Labat
                       SOLEIL, Gif-sur-Yvette, France

 


 

Funding: Financial support from the John Adams Institute, the Fell Fund (University of Oxford), the Université Paris-Sud (programme 'Attractivité') and the French ANR (contract ANR-12-JS05-0003-01).
We report on recent measurements made at FACET by the E-203 collaboration to test a longitudinal bunch profile monitor based on Coherent Smith-Purcell radiation. The capacity of this monitor to resolve sub-picosecond bunches will be shown as well as a comparison of profile reconstructed for different beam compression settings. We will also present recent electromagnetic simulations of the interactions between the beam and the grating as well as the expected resolution of such monitor. Comparison between Coherent Smith-Purcell radiation measurement and those made with other techniques will also be discussed. Finally future upgrades of the experiment and steps toward the construction of a single shot longitudinal profile monitor will be presented.

 


 



TUPC39
Dispersive Fourier-Transform Electrooptical Sampling for Single-Shot Modulation Measurement in a Proton-Driven Plasma Wakefield Accelerator
467


 

O. Reimann
                       MPI-P, München, Germany
R. Tarkeshian
                       MPI, Muenchen, Germany

 


 

The concept of proton-driven plasma wakefield acceleration has recently been proposed as a means of accelerating a bunch of electrons to high energies with very high gradients, and a demonstration experiment (AWAKE) at CERN is now under development. For this a clear understanding of the temporal and spatial modulation of the proton driver bunches after propagating the plasma channel is essential. A single-shot electrooptical sampling system using dispersive Fourier-transform exploiting transverse coherent transition radiation* is proposed here to determine the bunch modulation and field properties in the frequency domain. Frequencies up to the terahertz region with a resolution of less than 10 GHz are measurable. The system with a closed optical fiber path is based on a semiconductor laser source to achieve easy handling and robustness. The principle idea, estimations of the required sensitivity, and first experimental results are presented.
* Pukhov, A. et al. Phys. Rev.ST Accel. Beams 15 (2012)

 


 



TUPC40
Bunch Length Measurements Using Correlation Theory in Incoherent Optical Transition Radiation
471


 

B. Smit, F. Frei, R. Ischebeck, G.L. Orlandi, V. Schlott
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

Funding: Paul Scherrer Institut (PSI)
As Free Electron Lasers create ultra-short bunch lengths, the longitudinal diagnostic for such femto-second bunches becomes more difficult. We suggest a bunch length method using the spectral analysis of incoherent Optical Transition Radiation (OTR) in the visible frequency domain. The frequency response of OTR is taken by inserting an aluminium coated silicon wafer into the electron beam. The OTR light is collected with mirror optics into an optical fibre, which is coupled to a spectrometer (334 THz to 1500 THz). The resolution of the spectrometer allows us to measure bunch length lower than 100 fs rms. Bunch length was varied from 100 femto-seconds down to a few femto-seconds. The spectral response of Optical Transition Radiation (OTR) showed an increase of the correlation between neighbouring frequencies as bunch length was reduced.

 


 



TUPC41
A Femtosecond Resolution Electro-Optic  Diagnostic Using a Nanosecond-Pulse Laser
474


 

S.P. Jamison
                       STFC/DL/ASTeC, Daresbury, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom
W.A. Gillespie, D.A. Walsh
                       University of  Dundee, Nethergate, Dundee, Scotland, United Kingdom

 


 

Funding: We gratefully acknowledge support under CERN collaboration agreement KE1865/TE
Electro-optic longitudinal profile diagnostic systems with intrinsically improved reliability and a time resolution of 20 fs rms are being developed for CLIC. Exploiting the electro-optic effect, the bunch electric field 'pulse carves' an optical replica from a narrow bandwidth nanosecond duration laser probe. All-optical characterisation of the optical replica is via spectrally resolved auto-correlation, providing a sub-20fs resolution capability. An optical parametric amplification stage following the pulse carving, and driven by same nanosecond laser that provides the probe, enables sufficient intensity for single-shot measurement. In basing the optical system on nanosecond Q-switched lasers, bypassing complex femtosecond laser systems, the potential for robust instrumentation development is enhanced. The bandwidth limitations of the electro-optic materials are being addressed through investigations into multiple crystal detectors, and THz induced second harmonic generation on metal surfaces. Experimental results on the optical subsystems, using laser-produced THz as an electron bunch mimic, are presented together with performance projections for the integrated system.

 


 



TUPC43
Bunch Length Measurement With Streak Camera At SSRF Storage Ring
478


 

J. Chen, Z.C. Chen, Y.B. Leng, K.R. Ye, R.X. Yuan
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China

 


 

A streak camera is installed to measure the bunch length of storage ring at SSRF. The principle, structure, configuration and error analysis of the measurement is introduced. Some result of the measurement are analysed to explain the physical meaning of beam status. The system is used in daily operation and machine study at SSRF.

 


 



TUPC45
DOSFET-L02: An Advanced Online Dosimetry System for RADFET Sensors
481


 

L. Fröhlich, S. Grulja
                       Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A., Basovizza, Italy
F. Löhl
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

Funding: This work was supported in part by the Italian Ministry of University and Research under grants FIRB-RBAP045JF2 and FIRB-RBAP06AWK3.
Radiation-sensing field-effect transistors (RADFETs) are integrating dosimeters that have found wide application in space and particle accelerator environments. We present a new system, the DOSFET-L02, for the readout of up to four RADFET sensors. The system features enhanced readout stability, support for long sensor cables, an adjustable exposure bias voltage of up to 30 V, and integrated temperature measurement. Recent measurements demonstrate the performance of the system with RADFETs at bias voltages of 9 V, 25 V, and under zero bias.

 


 



TUPC46
Beam Loss Monitoring Study for SIS100@FAIR
485


 

V.S. Lavrik, L.H.J. Bozyk, O.K. Kester, A. Reiter
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
O.K. Kester, V.S. Lavrik
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany

 


 

FAIR, the facility for antiproton and ion research, is a multi-disciplinary accelerator facility which will extend the existing GSI complex in Darmstadt, Germany. In the FAIR start version, the new synchrotron SIS100 will provide proton or heavy ion beams for a variety of experiments. The GSI synchrotron SIS18 will operate as injector for SIS100. The current study focuses on beam loss measurements for SIS18 and SIS100. The aim of this study is to find quantitative methods to measure beam losses around the machine, mainly SIS100, on an absolute scale. The contribution will present results of two pilot experiments carried out in the high-energy beam lines and at the SIS18 with Uranium ions in the energy range up to 900 MeV/u. In the first experiment the Uranium beam was totally stopped in a Copper target and the particle shower measured with LHC-type ionization chambers. In the second experiment, the beam was slowly excited in the SIS18 synchrotron to create controlled losses on a scraper which were monitored by the DC current transformer and beam loss monitors. Experimental data are compared against the predictions of Fluka simulations.

 






Poster TUPC46 [5.404 MB]
            
 


 



TUPC47
Simulation for Radiation Field Caused by Beam Loss of C-ADS Injector II
489


 

G. Ren, W. Li, Y. Li
                       USTC/NSRL, Hefei, Anhui, People's Republic of China
M. Zeng
                       Tsinghua University, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

CADS is a Chinese ADS(Accelerator Driven Sub-critical System) project. Its injector is a high current, full superconducting proton accelerator. For such a facility, a BLM system is necessary, especially in low energy segments. This paper presents some basic simulation for 10MeV proton by Monte Carlo program FLUKA, as well as the distributions we got about different secondary particles in three aspects: angular, energy spectrum and current. These results are helpful to select the detector type and its location, determine its dynamic range matching different requirements for both fast and slow beam loss. This paper also analyzes the major impact of the background, such as superconducting cavity X radiation and radiation caused by material activation. This work is meaningful in BLM system research.

 


 




