













IBIC2012 - Table of Session: MOPA (Poster in Room 201 on Monday)


MOPA —  Poster in Room 201 on Monday   (01-Oct-12   16:20—17:50)



Paper
Title
Page



MOPA01
Design Study of the Striplines for the Extraction Kicker of the CLIC Damping Rings
47


 

C. Belver-Aguilar, A. Faus-Golfe
                       IFIC, Valencia, Spain
M.J. Barnes
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
F. Toral
                       CIEMAT, Madrid, Spain

 


 

Pre-Damping Rings (PDRs) and Damping Rings (DRs) are needed to reduce the beam emittance and, therefore, to achieve the luminosity requirements for the CLIC main linac. Several stripline kicker systems will be used to inject and extract the beam from the PDRs and DRs. Results of initial studies of the stripline cross-section and the beam coupling impedance, for a non-tapered beam pipe, have previously been reported. In this paper, we present the analysis to study the final choice of the cross-section design, based on impedance matching and field inhomogeneity requirements, the power reflected in the transition between an electrode and the input coaxial feedthrough, and the predicted beam coupling impedance. Mechanical tolerances for the stripline manufacturing process are presently being studied. The striplines are planned to be prototyped by December 2012.

 


 



MOPA02
270 degree Electron Beam Bending System using Two Sector Magnets for Therapy Application
50


 

S.D. Dhole, S. Akhter, V.N. Bhoraskar, B.J. Patil
                       University of Pune, Pune, India
S.T. Chavan, R. Krishnan, S.N. Pethe
                       SAMEER, Mumbai, India

 


 

The 270 degree doubly achromatic beam bending magnet system using two sector magnets has been designed mainly for treating cancer and skin diseases. The main requirements of the design of two magnet system is to focus an electron beam having a spot size less than 3 mm X 3 mm, energy spread within 3% and divergence angle <= 3 mrad at the target. To achieve these parameters the simulation was carried out using Lorentz-3EM software. The beam spot, divergence angle and energy spread were observed with respect to the variation in angles of sector magnets and drift distance. From the simulated results, it has been optimized that the first and second magnet has an angle 195 degree and 75 degree and the drift distance 64 mm. It is also observed that at the 1396, 2878 and 4677 A-turn, the optimized design produces 3324, 6221 and 9317 Gauss of magnetic field at median plane require to bend 6, 12 and 18 MeV electron respectively. The output parameters of the optimized design are energy spread 3 %, divergence angle ~ 2.8 mrad and spot size 2.6 mm.

 


 



MOPA04
An Electron Beam Profile Monitor for the Race-track Microtron
54


 

S.D. Dhole, V.N. Bhoraskar, B.J. Patil, N.S. Shinde
                       University of Pune, Pune, India

 


 

In electron irradiation experiments on materials such as semiconductors, solar cells etc., an uniformity and the charge distribution in the electron beam is very important. Therefore, an electron beam current monitor and its electronic system have been designed and built to measure the distribution of a beam current either in the horizontal or vertical direction along with the beam dimensions. To obtain X-Y beam profile, a special type of Faraday Cup was designed which mainly consists of charge collecting electrodes made up of thin copper strips. Each strip having dimensions 0.5 mm wide, 4 mm thick and 20 mm long were fixed parallel to each other and separation between them was ~ 0.5 mm. This multi electrode Faraday was mounted at the extraction port of the Race Track Microtron, where 1 MeV electron beam allowed to fall on it. The beam characterization in the form of current and uniformity were measured. The current from each strip were measured using an electronic circuit developed based on the multiplexing principle. The uniformity of the beam can be measured with an accuracy of 10%. The minimum and maximum dimensions which can be measured are 3 mm and 15 mm respectively.

 


 



MOPA06
VIMOS, New Capabilities for an Optical Safety System
57


 

K. Thomsen, J. Devlaminck
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

VIMOS is a dedicated safety system developed at the Spallation Neutron Source SINQ at the Paul Scherrer Institut, PSI, in Switzerland. VIMOS very directly monitors the correct current density distribution of the proton beam on the target by sampling the light emitted from a glowing mesh heated by the passing protons. The design has been optimized for obtaining maximum sensitivity and timely detection of beam irregularities relying on standard well-proven components. Recently it has been demonstrated that technical boundary conditions like radiation level and signal strength should allow for upgrading the system to a sensitive diagnostic device delivering quantitative and image-resolved values for the proton current density distribution on the SINQ target. By determining the temperature of the glowing mesh from the signals in two separate wavelength bands the temperature distribution over the mesh can be derived und subsequently the incident proton beam current density distribution. Work aimed at investigating the feasibility of adding these diagnostic abilities to VIMOS shows initial promising results. The status of the project and preliminary findings will be reported.

 


 



MOPA07
Development of a Phase Probe for the NIRS Small Cyclotron HM-18
60


 

S. Hojo, A. Goto, T. Honma, K. Katagiri, A. Sugiura
                       NIRS, Chiba-shi, Japan
Y. Takahashi
                       AEC, Chiba, Japan

 


 

The small cyclotron HM-18 of the National Institute of Radiological Sciences (NIRS) has been operated for use in RI production since 1994. The HM-18 allows us to accelerate protons and deuterons at fixed energies of 18 and 9 MeV, respectively. It has four trim coils for generation of the isochronous fields. Until recently, currents of the four trim coils had been adjusted only by monitoring the output beam intensity. In order to exactly produce the isochronous fields, a new phase probe has been installed in the HM-18. The phase probe has a simple structure in which four copper electrode plates of 60 mm x70 mm in area are glued to a copper base plate with a polyimide insulator between them. The thicknesses of the copper plates and the polyimide are 0.1 mm. This structure has an advantage that it can be easily installed in the cyclotron; only one part of a pair of upper and lower electrodes, which is usually adopted, is simply attached on the surface of the (lower) sector pole. The development of the phase probe and some results of a preliminary beam test using it are reported.

 


 



MOPA08
Various Usages of Wall Current Monitors for Commissioning of RF Systems in J-PARC Synchrotrons
63


 

F. Tamura, M. Nomura, A. Schnase, T. Shimada, M. Yamamoto
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-Mura, Naka-Gun, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan
K. Hara, K. Hasegawa, C. Ohmori, M. Toda, M. Yoshii
                       KEK, Tokai, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

Wall current monitors (WCM) for rf system commissioning are installed in the J-PARC synchrotrons, the RCS and the MR. The WCM signals are used as the input of the beam loading compensation system, and also used diagnosis to adjust the rf system parameters. Since the rf and beam frequency is in the range of a few MHz, direct measurement of the WCM signals is possible. For the diagnosis, the WCM signals are taken by an oscilloscope with the revolution clock signal generated by the LLRF control system, and slices of the WCM waveform with lengths of the revolution periods are generated. By stacking the slices, one can get a mountain plot, which shows motions of bunches and variations of the bunch shapes. Also, time variations of the bunching factor, which are important for acceleration of high intensity proton beams, are obtained. The harmonic analysis is performed on the WCM signal and the cavity voltage monitor signal. By using complex amplitudes of them, one can calculate the impedance seen by the beam. In this presentation, we show examples of the analyses described above. The rf parameters for high intensity beams have been successfully adjusted by using these analyses.

 


 



MOPA09
Comparison of Three Different Concepts of High Dynamic Range and Dependability Optimised Current Measurement Digitisers for Beam Loss Systems
66


 

W. Viganò, B. Dehning, E. Effinger, G.G. Venturini, C. Zamantzas
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The first concept is based on current to frequency conversion, enhanced with an ADC for extending the dynamic range and decreasing the response time. A summary of 3 years worth of operational experience with such a system for LHC beam loss monitoring will be given. The second principle is based on an adaptive current to frequency converter implemented in an ASIC. The basic parameters of the circuit are discussed and compared with measurements. Several measures are taken to harden both circuits against single event effects and to make them tolerant for operation in radioactive environments. The third circuit is based on a fully differential integrator for enhanced dynamic range, where laboratory and test installation measurements will be presented. All circuits are designed to avoid any dead time in the acquisition and have reliability and fail safe operational considerations taken into account.

 


 



MOPA10
Diamond Detectors for LHC
71


 

E. Griesmayer, P. Kavrigin
                       CIVIDEC Instrumentation, Wien, Austria
T. Baer, B. Dehning, D. Dobos, E. Effinger, H. Pernegger
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
M. Hempel
                       BTU, Cottbus, Germany

 


 

Funding: CIVIDEC Instrumentation GmbH
Diamond detectors are installed at the LHC as fast beam loss monitors. Their excellent time resolution make them a useful beam diagnostic tool for bunch-to-bunch beam loss observations, which is essential for the understanding of fast beam loss scenarios at the LHC.

 


 



MOPA12
Characterization of a Wide Dynamic-range, Radiation-tolerant Charge-digitizer ASIC for Monitoring of Beam Losses
74


 

G.G. Venturini, F. Anghinolfi, B. Dehning
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
M. Kayal
                       EPFL, Lausanne, Switzerland

 


 

An Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) has been designed and fabricated to provide a compact solution to digitize current signals from ionization chambers and diamond detectors, employed as beam loss monitors at CERN and several other high energy physics facilities. The circuit topology has been devised to accept positive and negative currents, to have a wide dynamic range (above 120 dB), withstand radiation levels over 100kGy and offer different modes of operation, covering a broad range of applications. Furthermore, an internal conversion reference is employed in the digitization, to provide an accurate absolute measurement. This paper discusses the detailed characterization of the first prototype: linearity, radiation tolerance and temperature dependence of the conversion, as well as implications and system-level considerations regarding its use for beam instrumentation applications in a high energy physics facility.

 


 



MOPA13
Real-time Calculation of Scale Factors of X-ray Beam Position Monitors during User Operation
79


 

C. Bloomer, G. Rehm
                       Diamond, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom

 


 

Photoemission based X-ray Beam Position Monitors (XBPMs) are widely used at 3rd generation light sources to both monitor and stabilise the photon beam to sub-micron precision. Traditionally, finding the geometric scale factors requires either systematic stepper motor movements of the XBPM or well controlled electron beam displacements to measure the response of the XBPM. For each Insertion Device gap it is required to repeat this in order to build up a complete set of scale factors covering all possible operating conditions. Elliptically Polarising Undulators further complicate matters by having multiple operating modes which would require multi dimensional lookup tables. Presented in this paper is a method for retrieving the geometric scale factors of an XBPM in real time by making use of the intrinsic small random movements of the electron beam and finding the correlation in synchronous measurements from Electron BPMs and XBPMs at kHz sample rates.

 


 



MOPA15
New Electronics Design for the European XFEL Re-entrant Cavity Monitor
83


 

C.S. Simon
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France
N. Baboi
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany
R. Baldinger, B. Keil, R. Kramert, G. Marinkovic, M. Roggli, M. Stadler
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

About one third of the beam position monitors (BPMs) in the European XFEL (E-XFEL) cryomodules will be re-entrant cavities. The BPM mechanics and Radio-Frequency front-end (RFFE) electronics are developed by CEA/Saclay. Two RFFEs and a digital back-end with two ADC mezzanines are integrated into a compact standalone unit called MBU (modular BPM unit) developed by PSI. The signal processing uses hybrids and a single stage downconversion to generate the signals sum and delta. Every RF/analog component of the re-entrant BPM electronics has been simulated with a Mathcad model and tested independently on test benches. The very low Q of the cavity monopole mode allows the new electronics to filter this mode at the dipole mode frequency and an IQ demodulation for delta and sum channels allow the digital back-end to determine the sign of the beam position just by comparing the phases of the channels, independently of beam arrival time jitter and external reference clock phase. This paper describes the design and architecture of a new re-entrant BPM electronics, including results of beam tests at FLASH that were performed to validate the chosen design.

 


 



MOPA16
Design and Characterization of a Prototype Stripline Beam Position Monitor for the CLIC Drive Beam
87


 

A. Benot-Morell, L. Søby, M. Wendt
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
A. Benot-Morell
                       IFIC, Valencia, Spain
J.M. Nappa, J. Tassan-Viol, S. Vilalte
                       IN2P3-LAPP, Annecy-le-Vieux, France
S.R. Smith
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Funding: FPA2010-21456-C02-01, SEIC-2010-00028
The prototype of a stripline Beam Position Monitor (BPM) with its associated readout electronics is under development at CERN, in collaboration with SLAC, LAPP and IFIC. The anticipated position resolution and accuracy are expected to be below 2μm and 20μm respectively for operation of the BPM in the CLIC drive beam (DB) linac. This paper describes the particular CLIC DB conditions with respect to the beam position monitoring, presents the measurement concept, and summarizes electromagnetic simulations and RF measurements performed on the prototype.

 


 



MOPA17
Modular Logarithmic Amplifier Beam Position Monitor Readout System at the University of Hawai'i
90


 

B.T. Jacobson, M.R. Hadmack, J. Madey, P. Niknejadi
                       University of Hawaii, Honolulu, HI, USA

 


 

High brightness electron beams for inverse Compton backscatter photon sources driven by thermionic microwave guns require real-time position measurements in order to achieve the spatial and temporal coincidence necessary to ensure statistically measurable signals. True logarithmic amplifiers are more adequately suited to signal comparison than are σ-delta methods. A low-cost, modular and scalable readout and data acquisition system for strip-line beam position monitors utilizing the AD640 log-amp is being developed at University of Hawai'i MkV Linear Accelerator and Free Electron Laser Lab. Initial measurements and prototyping of the hardware is complete with commissioning and deployment of the system currently ongoing. We present the methodology and early results of this project.

 


 



MOPA18
A Prototype Cavity Beam Position Monitor for the CLIC Main Beam
95


 

F.J. Cullinan, S.T. Boogert, N.Y. Joshi, A. Lyapin
                       JAI, Egham, Surrey, United Kingdom
D. Bastard, E. Calvo, N. Chritin, F. Guillot-Vignot, T. Lefèvre, L. Søby, M. Wendt
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
A. Lunin, V.P. Yakovlev
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA
S.R. Smith
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

The Compact Linear Collider (CLIC) places unprecedented demands on its diagnostics systems. A large number of cavity beam position monitors (BPMs) throughout the main linac and beam delivery system must routinely perform with 50 nm spatial resolution. Multiple position measurements within a single 156~ns bunch train are also required. A prototype low-Q cavity beam position monitor has been designed and built to be tested on the CLIC Test Facility (CTF3) probe beam. This paper presents the latest measurements of the prototype cavity BPM and the design and simulation of the radio frequency (RF) signal processing electronics with regards to the final performance. Installation of the BPM in the CTF3 probe beamline is also discussed.

 


 



MOPA20
Development of 3D EO-Sampling System for the Ultimate Temporal Resolution
98


 

K. Ogawa, H. Tomizawa
                       RIKEN SPring-8 Center, Sayo-cho, Sayo-gun, Hyogo, Japan
S. Matsubara, Y. Okayasu
                       JASRI/SPring-8, Hyogo, Japan

 


 

We have been developing three dimensional bunch charge distribution (3D-BCD) monitor for FEL seeded with high-order harmonic (HH) pulse. 3D-BCD is based on EO-sampling technique with multiple EO crystal detectors in the manner of spectral decoding. Using this 3D-EO sampling technique, the positioning and timing of electron bunch is obtained in real-time with non-destructive measurement. For obtaining the high temporal resolution, an octave broadband probe laser with linear chirp rate of 1 fs/nm is required. We are developing an EO-probe laser pulse with ~10 μJ pulse energy and the bandwidth over 300 nm (FWHM). For meet these bandwidth and pulse energy, this EO-probe pulse is using a supercontinuum generated by photonic crystal fiber (PCF) and amplified with optical parametric amplification (OPA). Especially, for amplification with maintaining octave bandwidth, non-collinear OPA (NOPA) using BBO crystal and a pump source with a wavelength of 450 nm are adopted. The EO-probe pulse energy of 10 μJ provides for high S/N ratio to each detector and the bandwidth of 300 nm with 300 fs pulse duration allows the measurement for the 30 fs electron bunch duration (FWHM).

 


 



MOPA21
Improvement of the SIAM Photon Source Storage Ring BPM System
101


 

S. Klinkhieo, S. Boonsuya, P. Klysubun, S. Krainara, P. Songsiriritthigul, P. Sudmuang, N. Suradet, S. Tesprasitte
                       SLRI, Nakhon Ratchasima, Thailand
J.-R. Chen, H.P. Hsueh, Y.-H. Liu
                       NSRRC, Hsinchu, Taiwan

 


 

This report describes the improvement of the Beam Position Monitoring (BPM) systems for the 1.2 GeV storage ring of the Siam Photon Source (SPS). The systematic studies and investigations for improving the machine performance, and storage ring BPM system has been carried out in the last few years. Some major technical problems have been found and solved. The inefficiency and unreliability of the original BPM system were also identified. They are mainly caused due to the use of low quality signal and improper installation of cables. Detailed descriptions of the replacement with the higher quality (lower loss and better interference shielding) BPM cables and implementation of a separated cable trays for the BPM cables, as well as the work on BPM electronic board calibration will be described. The measurement results before and after the improvement of the BPM system will also be presented.

 


 



MOPA24
Photon Beam Position Monitor at SIAM Photon Source
104


 

P. Sudmuang, S. Boonsuya, S. Chaichuay, P. Klysubun, S. Krainara, H. Nakajima, S. Rugmai, N. Sumano, N. Suradet
                       SLRI, Nakhon Ratchasima, Thailand

 


 

Photon beam position monitors (PBPM) have been designed and installed in the beamline front-ends at Siam Photon Source (SPS). Up till now, these blade-type PBPMs have been successfully installed at three bending magnet and an insertion device (planar undulator) beamlines. Its performance has been tested and compared with that of the electron beam position monitor. The achieved resolution is found to be better than 3 μm. The obtained PBPM data proved to be extremely invaluable in the investigation of the sources of the observed beam positional fluctuation, and for compensation of the orbit perturbation caused by undulator gap change. In this paper, the details of the calibration procedure will be presented. Various factors affecting reading of the signal such as back scattering effect, choice of bias voltage, and temperature variation have been investigated and the results will be discussed herewith.

 


 



MOPA26
Performance and Upgrade of BPMs at the J-PARC MR
107


 

T. Toyama, Y. Hashimoto
                       J-PARC, KEK & JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan
K. Hanamura
                       Mitsubishi Electric System & Service Co., Ltd, Tsukuba, Japan
S. Hatakeyama
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-mura, Japan
M. Okada, M. Tejima
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

Since recovery from the great earthquake 2011.3.11, proton beam, more than 1014 ppp, is accelerated up to 30 GeV at the J-PARC MR. The BPMs were originally designed with the external capacitors. The aim was to improve the position response in wider frequencies and to get an adequate output voltage at the design intensity, 4x1013 ppb. It was modified, however, not to have the capacitors. Therefore we have sufficient signal intensity from low intensity beams of the initial beam commissioning, but too large from the design intensity beam. The processing circuits (BPMC) have to accommodate those output signals from high intensity beams. We are adding the attenuator-LPFs just before the BPMC. This paper will describe these additional attenuator-LPFs. In connection with the MR collimator upgrade, some BPMs are re-allocated. This process is also reported.

 


 



MOPA28
Turn-by-turn BPM System using Coaxial Switches and ARM Microcontroller at UVSOR
112


 

T. Toyoda
                       IMS, Okazaki, Japan
K. Hayashi, M. Katoh
                       UVSOR, Okazaki, Japan

 


 

A major upgrade of the electron storage ring at UVSOR (Institute for Molecular Science, Japan) started from April 2012. To assist the commissioning procedure, we have developed a turn-by-turn Beam Position Monitor (BPM) system which consists of a signal switching circuit, a digital oscilloscope and software. The storage ring has 24 BPMs, each of which consists of four electrodes. By using the signal switching circuit, we can select one BPM from eight BPM's. The four signals from the BPM are sent to a digital oscilloscope and are recorded. In the switching circuit, coaxial switches of SPDT (Single Pole Dual Throw) and SP4T type are used. To control coaxial switches, we adopted 'mbed', the ARM microcontroller development kit. The 'mbed' stores the control applications configured in the HTML file and JavaScript library which can handle multiple I/O ports. It responds as a HTTP server and the control application runs on a Web browser. By clicking buttons with a mouse, we can control the I/O ports of 'mbed' through JavaScript library and accordingly can control coaxial switches. In the presentation, we will report the detail of the developed BPM system and its performance.

 


 



MOPA30
Application of EMMA BPMs to the ALICE Energy Recovery Linac
117


 

A. Kalinin, D. Angal-Kalinin, F. Jackson, J.K. Jones, P.H. Williams
                       STFC/DL/ASTeC, Daresbury, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom

 


 

The ALICE Energy Recovery Linac arc button pickups have been recently equipped with EMMA BPM electronics*. These bunch-by-bunch EPICS VME BPMs give information about charge and position, and its jitter, allowing estimates of the beam energy jitter in ALICE in different modes of operation. A Mathematica program is designed to monitor statistically individual bunches (spacing 61.54ns) as well the train as a whole (up to 1625 bunches), allowing the study of jitter and position stability of the beam through the arc. The ALICE arc has been designed to be isochronous, with the bunch compression achieved through a separate dedicated bunch compressor chicane. The arc incorporates two sextupoles for correcting non-linear longitudinal matrix terms and experimental evidence suggests that the off-centred beam in the sextupoles breaks the linear isochronicity. We present some beam measurement results collected in 2012 using these BPMs.
*A. Kalinin et al, MOPPR061, IPAC12

 


 



MOPA31
Design and Fabrication of the Stripline BPM at ESS-Bilbao
122


 

S. Varnasseri, I. Arredondo, D. Belver, F.J. Bermejo, J. Feuchtwanger, N. Garmendia, P.J. González, L. Muguira
                       ESS Bilbao, LEIOA, Spain
V. Etxebarria, J. Jugo, J. Portilla
                       University of the Basque Country, Faculty of Science and Technology, Bilbao, Spain

 


 

A Stripline type BPM is designed and fabricated at ESSB. In order to compare, in the future, the functionality and response of the previous BPM capacitive pick-ups design with stripline, a design for stripline BPM is proposed. The design is based on travelling wave electrodes principles to detect the transverse position of the beam in the vacuum chamber. In the design of stripline setup, it has been considered to keep the comparison conditions with pick-ups as similar as possible. The length of strip electrodes is 200 mm and the coverage angle is 0.952 rad. The structure is rotationally pi/2 symmetric and the alignment of electrodes are pi/4, 3pi/, 5pi/4 and 7pi/4. The design is optimized for a frequency of 352 MHz, however it can function on a wide range of frequencies out coming from the measurement results. Striplines in general have well defined behavior even for low beta and low intensity beams as well as functionality at low and high frequencies. A report on the design and characteristics measurement of Stripline will be presented. The characteristics like frequency range, electrodes insulation, electrode response, sensitivities to beam power and position will be presented.

 


 



MOPA33
Image Profile Diagnostics Solution for the Taiwan Photon Source
125


 

C.Y. Liao, Y.-S. Cheng, P.C. Chiu, K.T. Hsu, K.H. Hu, C.H. Kuo, D. Lee, C.Y. Wu
                       NSRRC, Hsinchu, Taiwan

 


 

TPS (Taiwan Photo Source) is a third generation 3 GeV synchrotron light facility, featuring ultra-high photon brightness with extremely low emittance which will be a state-of-the-art synchrotron radiation facility and is being in construction at National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center (NSRRC) campus. Beam image profile and its analysis play an important role in beam diagnostics of a particle accelerator system. However, due to the CCD image collection devices are distributed around the linac, booster, and storage ring, a distributed EPICS system based image profile diagnostics solution was proposed, which are based on GigE Vision camera with PoE support. This solution provides an easy way for cabling, and delivery adequate performance. Implementation plan for the TPS and results of prototype test at existed facility to examine functionality of hardware and software will be summarized in this report.

 


 



MOPA34
Improvement of Hardware and Software Setup for the Acquisition and Processing of SIAM Photon Source BPM Signal
130


 

N. Suradet, S. Boonsuya, S. Klinkhieo, P. Klysubun, S. Krainara, C.P. Preecha, P. Sudmuang
                       SLRI, Nakhon Ratchasima, Thailand

 


 

Data acquisition and processing system has been developed for the Siam Photon Source storage ring BPM system in order to improve monitoring and logging performances. BPM readout, i.e. scanning of BPM electrode voltage outputs and subsequently converting to X-Y position values, is now performed by an upgraded Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) with higher bit resolution (16-bit) analog-to-digital converter (ADC). Moving averaging is then performed on the obtained BPM data utilizing a LabVIEW code to reduce background noise during on-line measurement. All data is then stored on a dedicated computer serving as a central data logging system, which can be remotely accessed via a network communication link. In this report, details of the new setup will be presented, and comparison will be made between the performance of the new and previous setups, together with suggestions on further improvements.

 


 



MOPA35
Design Status of the European X-FEL Tranverse Intra Bunch Train Feedback
133


 

B. Keil, R. Baldinger, C.D. Beard, M.M. Dehler, W. Koprek, G. Marinkovic, M. Roggli, M. Rohrer, M. Stadler, D.M. Treyer
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland
V. Balandin, W. Decking, N. Golubeva
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Swiss State Secretariat for Education and Research SER
The European X-Ray Free Electron Laser (E-XFEL) will have a fast transverse intra-bunch train feedback (IBFB) system to stabilize the beam position in the SASE undulators. E-XFEL bunch trains consist of up to 2700 bunches with a minimum bunch spacing of 222ns and typ. 10Hz train repetition rate. The IBFB will measure the positions of each bunch in the bunch train, and apply intra-train feedback corrections with fast kickers, in addition to a feed-forward correction for reproducible trajectory perturbations. By achieving a feedback loop latency in the order of one microsecond, the IBFB will allow the beam position to converge quickly to the nominal orbit as required for stable SASE operation. The latest conceptual design of the IBFB and the status of IBFB components will be presented.

 


 



MOPA36
Development of Bunch Current and Oscillation Recorder for SuperKEKB Accelerator
138


 

M. Tobiyama, J.W. Flanagan
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

A High-speed digital signal memory has been developed for the bunch current and oscillation recorder for SuperKEKB. The memory consists of an 8-bit ADC and a FPGA daughter card with Spartan6 and DDR2 memories commercially available on a double width VME card. The block-RAM on the FPGA is used to transfer bunch current data with low latency for prompt bunch current measurements, and the large DDR2 memory is used for long-duration position recording, such as post-mortem bunch oscillation recording. The performance of the board, including data transfer rate, will be presented.

 


 



MOPA37
Reliable Beam-Intensity Control Technique at the HIMAC Synchrotron
143


 

K. Mizushima, T. Furukawa, Y. Hara, Y. Iwata, K. Katagiri, K. Noda, S. Sato, T. Shirai
                       NIRS, Chiba-shi, Japan

 


 

The carbon-ion beam is slowly extracted from the Heavy Ion Medical Accelerator in Chiba (HIMAC) synchrotron using the third-order resonance with the RF-knockout method for scanned carbon-ion therapy. However, an overshoot of the beam spill at the start of extraction is often induced by a slight variation of the beam emittance in operation cycles. It brings dose hot spot inside the target volume, because the tolerable beam-intensity in scanning irradiation is low. We have added short extraction, called preliminary extraction, before irradiation in order to remove the uncontrollable spilled particles. During preliminary extraction, it is necessary to prevent the beam delivering to the patient. Therefore, a fast beam shutter on which an ionization chamber is mounted was developed, and it was installed in the extraction line. The fast shutter enables us to switch from preliminary extraction to irradiation within 100 ms, and the reliability of the beam-intensity control system was drastically improved by the preliminary extraction technique.

 


 



MOPA38
Development of the System for Longitudinal Coupled Bunch Modes Measurement at Indus-2
146


 

S. Yadav, A.C. Holikatti, C.P. Navathe, A. Ojha, T.A. Puntambekar, Y. Tyagi
                       RRCAT, Indore (M.P.), India

 


 

In a circular accelerator, beam instabilities are intensity-dependent collective effects that arise because of the electromagnetic wake fields generated by the beam as it interacts with its environment. These instabilities limit the high current operation in the accelerator and degrade the performance of synchrotron radiation beam. Indus-2 is a synchrotron radiation source at RRCAT, Indore having design beam current of 300 mA and 2.5 GeV beam energy. Beam intensity signal obtained from wall current monitor (WCM) is used to measure the longitudinal coupled bunch modes (CBM). To study the beam instabilities, an automated software has been developed which acquires the beam intensity spectrum for measurement of coupled bunch modes. The software has option of complete CBM scan, scanning near the significant RF cavity higher order modes (HOM) and scanning of user-selected modes. The scanning time for complete 291 modes is ~5 minutes. In this paper, we describe the measurement system, features of the developed software and some measurement results on Indus-2 machine.

 


 



MOPA39
Introduction of Photon BPMs in SOLEIL Global Orbit Feedback Systems
150


 

N. Hubert, L. Cassinari, L.S. Nadolski
                       SOLEIL, Gif-sur-Yvette, France

 


 

SOLEIL global orbit feedback systems (slow and fast), based on 122 electron Beam Position Monitor (e-BPM) readings, are in operation since 2008 and give very satisfying performances (0.1Hz-500Hz vertical noise below 300 nm RMS and long term (8h) drifts below 1μm RMS). Whereas each straight section is equipped with an upstream and downstream e-BPM, there is no e-BPM next to a dipole magnet. For that reason, photon BPMs (x-BPMs) in the dipole beamline frontends give additional information that can be used to better stabilize the source point in the dipoles. In fact x-BPMs provide also a better position angular measurement resolution, as they are located at 4 meters from the source point. Results presented in this paper show that vertical position stability on bending magnet beamlines can be improved by including their x-BPM measurements in the global orbit feedback systems. As a first step x-BPMs have been introduced in the Slow Orbit FeedBack system (SOFB) that corrects the orbit with a repetition rate of 0.1Hz. In a second step x-BPMs will be introduced in the Fast Orbit FeedBack system (FOFB) running at a repetition rate of 10 kHz.

 


 



MOPA42
Measurements of Martin-Puplett Interferometer Limitations using Blackbody Source
153


 

P.E. Evtushenko, J.M. Klopf
                       JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA

 


 

Frequency domain measurements with Martin-Puplett interferometer is one of a few techniques capable of bunch length measurements at the level of ~ 100 fs. As the bunch length becomes shorter, it is important to know and be able to measure the limitations of the instrument in terms of shortest measurable bunch length. In this paper we describe experiment of using blackbody source with the modified Matrin-Puplett interferometer that is routinely used for bunch length measurements at the JLab FEL, as a way to estimate the shortest, measurable with the device, bunch. The limitation comes from high frequency cut-off of the presently used wire-grid polarizer and is estimated to be 50 fs RMS. The measurements are made with the same Golay cell detector that is used for beam measurements. We demonstrate that, even though the blackbody source is many orders of magnitude less bright than the coherent transition or synchrotron radiation, it can be used for the measurements and gives a very good signal to noise ratio in a combination with lock-in detection. We also compare the measurements made in air and in vacuum to show the very strong effect of the atmospheric absorption.

 


 



MOPA43
RF Front end for High Bandwidth Bunch Arrival Time Monitors in Free-Electron Lasers at DESY
157


 

A. Penirschke, A. Angelovski, M. Hansli, R. Jakoby
                       TU Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany
M. Bousonville, M.K. Czwalinna, H. Schlarb, C. Sydlo
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany
A. Kuhl
                       Uni HH, Hamburg, Germany
S. Schnepp
                       IFH, Zurich, Switzerland
T. Weiland
                       TEMF, TU Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

Funding: Funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF): 05K10RDA "Weiterentwickung eines Ankunftszeitmonitors"
The Free-Electron Laser in Hamburg FLASH is equipped with Bunch Arrival-time Monitors (BAMs) that use an electro-optical detection scheme to modulate the intensity of the femtosecond laser pulse train with the pickup signals (*). The achieved resolution of the existing BAMs are less than 10 fs for bunch charges higher than 500 pC. For lower bunch charges the time resolution drops significantly. Increased demands for low bunch charge operation modes of 20 pC and less at FLASH II and the European X-ray Free-Electron Laser XFEL require an upgrade of the existing beam diagnostic equipment. High bandwidth BAMs with newly developed cone-shaped pickups (**) promise sub-10 fs time resolution for both, the high and low bunch charge operation mode. This paper addresses the RF signal path of the high bandwidth BAMs for FLASH II and XFEL. It comprises radiation resistant coaxial cables, combiners and limiters up to a frequency of 40 GHz from the pickup electrodes to the Electro-optical Mach-Zehnder type modulator (EOM). Detailed investigations of the signal path using measurements and simulations with AWR Microwave Office allows for a good prediction of the signal quality and shape at the EOM.
(*) F. Löhl et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 104,144801 (2010)  (**) A. Angelovski et al. in Proceedings of the International Particle Accelerator Conference (IPAC2011), San Sebastian, Spain, 2011, p.1177 

 


 



MOPA45
Study of Beam Length Measurement based on TM010 Mode
162


 

R.X. Yuan, Y.B. Leng, L.Y. Yu, W.M. Zhou
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China

 


 

Beam length measurement in frequency domain is a familiar method, and the resolution is seriously limited by the system signal-noise-ratio (SNR) and the beam length measured. Usually this method can only obtain the resolution about ~10ps with beam length ~30ps when using signal from button or stripline BPM. But in FEL case, the beam length is the ps or sub-ps order. The paper discusses the probability of beam length measurement based on the TM010 mode in FEL case. When adopting High Order Mode(HOM) reject and system gain control, the system SNR can arrive at 110dB and the resolution can achieve 30fs with beam length ps or sub-ps.

 


 



MOPA46
Realization and Measurements of Cone-shaped Pickups for Bunch Arrival-time Monitors for FLASH and XFEL
165


 

A. Angelovski, M. Hansli, R. Jakoby, A. Penirschke
                       TU Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany
M. Bousonville, M.K. Czwalinna, H. Schlarb, C. Sydlo
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany
A. Kuhl
                       Uni HH, Hamburg, Germany
S. Schnepp
                       IFH, Zurich, Switzerland
T. Weiland
                       TEMF, TU Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

Funding: Funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF): 05K10RDA "Weiterentwickung eines Ankunftszeitmonitors"
At the Free Electron Laser FLASH at DESY, the installed Bunch Arrival-time Monitors (BAMs) use an electro-optical detection scheme for arrival-time measurements. The achieved time resolution is in the sub-10 fs range for bunch charges higher than 500 pC. The extension of FLASH II and the European X-ray Free Electron Laser Project (XFEL) foresees a low charge operation mode with bunch charge of 20 pC or less. The time resolution of the BAMs significantly drops as the bunch charge reduces (*). By expanding the bandwidth of the pickups one can increase the time resolution at low charges. In this paper, we present the characterization results of the manufactured cone-shaped pickups introduced in (**) with a bandwidth up to 40 GHz. The pickups mounted in a vacuum body exhibit four-fold rotational symmetry with respect to the beam pipe. Due to different beam pipe apertures for FLASH and XFEL, two bodies are manufactured. The rf properties of the mounted pickups in case of open and sealed body as well as the pickups separately are measured and compared to the simulation results obtained by CST STUDIO SUITE®.
(*)M. K. Bock et al. in Proceedings of DIPAC 2011, Hamburg, Germany, 2011, p.365 (**)A. Angelovski et al. in Proceedings of IPAC 2011, San Sebastian, Spain, 2011, p.1177

 


 



MOPA47
Planar Transmission Line BPM for Horizontal Aperture Chicane for XFEL
168


 

A. Angelovski, R. Jakoby, A. Penirschke
                       TU Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany
C. Gerth, U. Mavrič, C. Sydlo
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

In order to obtain ultra-short bunches in the Free Electron Laser FLASH at DESY, the electron beam is compressed in magnetic chicanes. Precise knowledge of the beam position in the chicane is of great significance for the longitudinal dynamics control. In the current implementation cylindrical pickup-striplines mounted perpendicularly to the beam are used as a Beam Position Monitor (BPM)(*). One can determine the horizontal beam position by measuring the phase difference of the beam induced signal at opposite ends of a pickup. Due to the different electrical and mechanical requirements for the European XFEL a new BPM has to be developed. In this paper, we present the design and analysis of a planar transmission line structure which is planned to be used as a BPM in the European XFEL. The planar design of the pickups can provide for proper impedance match to the subsequent electronics as well as sufficient mechanical stability along the aperture when using alumina substrates. A scaled non-hermetic prototype of the BPM is built and characterized by scattering parameters. The measurement results are compared to simulations obtained by CST STUDIO SUITE®.
(*) K. Hacker at el, Proceedings of DIPAC 2007, Venice, Italy 2007, p.108

 


 



MOPA48
Measurement of Temporal Resolution and Detection Efficiency of X-ray Streak Camera by Single Photon Images
171


 

A. Mochihashi, M. Masaki, H. Ohkuma, S. Takano, K. Tamura
                       JASRI/SPring-8, Hyogo-ken, Japan

 


 

Funding: This work was partly supported by MEXT Grant-in-Aid for Young Scientists (B) Grant number 21740215.
In the third generation and the next generation synchrotron radiation light sources, the electron beam bunch length of ps ~ sub-ps is expected to be achieved. An X-ray streak camera (X-SC) can directly measure the temporal width of X-ray synchrotron radiation pulse. The temporal resolution of X-SC depends on the initial velocity distribution of the photoelectrons from a photocathode which converts the X-ray photons to the photoelectrons. To measure the temporal resolution of the X-SC, we have observed 'single photon' streak camera images and measured the temporal spread of the images. By this 'single photon' experiment, we have evaluated the dependence of the temporal resolution and the detection efficiency on the photon energy. We have also tried to evaluate the dependence of the temporal resolution and the detection efficiency on the thickness of the photocathode. For this purpose, we have developed a multi-array type CsI photocathode with 3 different thickness of the photocathode. The experimental setups, and the results of the measurements of the temporal spread and the detection efficiency of the single photon events will be presented.

 


 



MOPA49
EO-sampling-based Temporal Overlap Control System for an HH Seeded FEL
176


 

S. Matsubara
                       RIKEN/SPring-8, Hyogo, Japan
M. Aoyama
                       JAEA/Kansai, Kyoto, Japan
A. Iwasaki, S. Owada
                       The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan
K. Ogawa, T. Sato, H. Tomizawa
                       RIKEN SPring-8 Center, Sayo-cho, Sayo-gun, Hyogo, Japan
Y. Okayasu, T. Togashi, T. Watanabe
                       JASRI/SPring-8, Hyogo-ken, Japan
E. Takahashi
                       RIKEN, Saitama, Japan

 


 

FELs have greatly interested for the short-wavelength region. However, their temporal profile and frequency spectra have shot-to-shot fluctuation by a SASE process. One of the promising approached for the problems is a seeded FEL scheme by using a full-coherent light source. The seeded FEL has been demonstrated in the EUV region by employ the high-order harmonics (HH) generation from an external laser source at the SCSS test-accelerator in the SPring-8. It is important for the HH-seeded FEL scheme to synchronize and overlap between the seeding laser pulse and the electron bunch. Their timing difference and laser spatial pointing is drifting. Therefore, a timing feedback and non-destructive monitor are necessary to operate seeded FEL continuously. We have constructed the timing monitor based on Electro-Optic (EO) sampling which is measure the timing difference the seeded laser pulse and the electron bunch simultaneously with the seeded FEL process. The probe laser pulse for the EO-sampling system is optically split from the common external HH laser driver for the seeded FEL. The EO-sampling system is able to use timing feedback for continual operation of the HH-seededFEL.

 


 




