













IBIC2013 - Table of Session: MOBL (Overview and Commissioning)


MOBL —  Overview and Commissioning   (16-Sep-13   11:00—12:30)
Chair: S.R. Smith, SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA


Paper
Title
Page



MOBL1
Instrumentation and Results from the SwissFEL Injector Test Facility
12


 

R. Ischebeck, V.R. Arsov, S. Bettoni, B. Beutner, M.M. Dehler, A. Falone, F. Frei, I. Gorgisyan, Ye. Ivanisenko, P.N. Juranic, B. Keil, F. Löhl, G.L. Orlandi, M. Pedrozzi, P. Pollet, E. Prat, T. Schietinger, V. Schlott, B. Smit
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland
P. Peier
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

The SwissFEL Injector Test Facility (SITF) has been equipped with numerous prototype diagnostics (BPMs, screen monitors, wire scanners, optical synchrotron radiation monitor, compression (THz) monitor, bunch arrival time monitor, EO spectral decoding monitor, charge and loss monitor) specifically designed for the low charge SwissFEL operation modes. The design of the diagnostics systems and recent measurement results will be presented.

 






Slides MOBL1 [35.165 MB]
            
 


 



MOBL2
Thermalized and Reaccelerated Beams at the National Superconducting Cyclotron Laboratory
19


 

S.J. Williams, T. Baumann, K. Cooper, A. Lapierre, D. Leitner, D.J. Morrissey, G. Perdikakis, J.A. Rodriguez, S. Schwarz, A. Spyrou, M. Steiner, C. Sumithrarachchi
                       NSCL, East Lansing, Michigan, USA
W. Wittmer
                       FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA

 


 

Funding: This work is supported by the National Science Foundation under contract number RC100609.
The National Superconducting Cyclotron Laboratory at Michigan State University is a Radioactive Ion Beam (RIB) facility providing beams of exotic nuclear species through projectile fragmentation. The Coupled Cyclotron Facility accelerates stable ion beams to ~100 MeV/A which are then fragmented and selected with the A1900 separator. A recent addition to NSCL is the gas stopping facility which thermalizes the high energy beam. The RIBs are extracted at <60keV and selected by A/Q for further transport to the low energy areas, currently consisting of the BECOLA beam cooling and laser spectroscopy system, and LEBIT Penning trap. RIBs up to 6 MeV/A will be provided by the ReA post-accelerator, currently consisting of an EBIT, RFQ and superconducting RF cavities. Energies up to 1.5 MeV/A are presently available, and energy increases will be phased in with the addition of further cryomodules. In a campaign of commissioning experiments, RIBs from a fragmentation facility were thermalized and post-accelerated for the first time. Preliminary results will be presented, focussing on the diagnostic challenges of detecting and characterizing beams over a wide range of energy and rate.

 






Slides MOBL2 [2.084 MB]
            
 


 



MOBL3
Electron Bunch Diagnostic at the Upgraded ELBE Accelerator: Status and Challenges
23


 

M. Kuntzsch, S. Findeisen, M. Gensch, B.W. Green, J. Hauser, S. Kovalev, U. Lehnert, P. Michel, F. Röser, Ch. Schneider, R. Schurig
                       HZDR, Dresden, Germany
A. Al-Shemmary, M. Bousonville, M.K. Czwalinna, T. Golz, H. Schlarb, B. Schmidt, S. Schulz, N. Stojanovic, S. Vilcins
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany
E. Hass
                       Uni HH, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

Within the ELBE upgrade towards a Center for High Power Radiation Sources (HSQ), a mono energetic positron, a liquid lead photo neutron source and two new THz sources have been installed at the superconducting electron linac at ELBE. A variety of established as well as newly developed electron beam diagnostics were installed and tested. In this paper we want to present first results achieved with the currently existing prototype beam arrival time and bunch compression monitors (BAM, BCM) as well as one versatile EOS set-up. Based on these future developements and upgrades are discussed.

 






Slides MOBL3 [3.578 MB]
            
 


 




