













IBIC2013 - Table of Session: WEPC (Wednesday Poster Session)


WEPC —  Wednesday Poster Session   (18-Sep-13   16:00—18:30)



Paper
Title
Page



WEPC02
Project PROMETHEUS: Design and Construction of a Radio Frequency Quadrupole at TAEK
652


 

G. Turemen, B. Yasatekin
                       Ankara University, Faculty of Sciences, Ankara, Turkey
Y. Akgun, A. Alacakir, A.S. Bolukdemir, E. Durukan, H. Karadeniz, E. Recepoğlu
                       TAEK, Ankara, Turkey
E. Cavlan
                       TOBB ETU, Ankara, Turkey
M. Celik, Z. Sali
                       Gazi University, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Teknikokullar, Ankara, Turkey
S. Erhan
                       UCLA, Los Angeles, California, USA
Ö. Mete
                       UMAN, Manchester, United Kingdom
G. Unel
                       UCI, Irvine, California, USA

 


 

The PROMETHEUS Project is ongoing for the design and development of a 4-vane radio frequency quadrupole (RFQ) with its H+ ion source, a low energy beam transport (LEBT) line and diagnostics section. The main goal of the project is to achieve the acceleration of the low energy ions up to 1.5 MeV by an RFQ (352 MHz) shorter than 2 m. A plasma ion source is being developed to produce a 20 keV, 1 mA H+ beam. Ion source, transmission and beam dynamics in the RFQ are discussed through simulation results. In addition, analytical studies were also performed resulting into an RFQ design code, DEMIRCI as discussed and presented here in comparison with various existing software. As a result of the simulations, beam transmission of 99% was achieved at 1.7 m downstream reaching energy of 1.5 MeV. As the first phase an Aluminum RFQ prototype, the so-called cold model, will be built for low power RF characterization. In this contribution the status of the project, design considerations, simulation results, the various diagnostics techniques and RFQ fabrication issues are discussed.

 






Poster WEPC02 [25.664 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC03
Brookhaven 200 MeV Linear Accelerator Beam Instrumentation Upgrade
656


 

O. Gould, B. Briscoe, D.M. Gassner, V. LoDestro, R.J. Michnoff, J. Morris, D. Raparia, K. Sanders, W. Shaffer, C. Theisen, M. Wilinski
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA
D. Persaud
                       City College of The City University of New York, New York, USA

 


 

The Brookhaven National Laboratory 200 MeV H− LINAC beam instrumentation equipment has been in operation for four decades with various changes implemented over this period. There is a need to upgrade the entire beam instrumentation system of the LINAC to improve the diagnostics of the beam from the Low Energy Beam Transport Line through the LINAC and into the LINAC Booster Transfer Line and BLIP line. Profile Monitors, Current Monitors, Beam Position Monitors, Loss Radiation Monitors, and Emittance Measurement devices are to be designed and implemented over the next three years. This upgrade will improve the operation reliability, beam quality and beam losses. Additional improvements will be obtained by designing the beam instrumentation system to integrate with other proposed diagnostics and malfunction detection and display upgrades in the LINAC Control Room to improve the overall performance of the LINAC.

 






Poster WEPC03 [18.356 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC04
Beam Diagnostics for Commissioning and Operation of a Novel Compact Cyclotron for Radioisotope Production
660


 

I. Podadera, B. Ahedo, P. Arce, L. García-Tabarés, D. Gavela, A. Guirao, J.I. Lagares, L.M. Martinez, D. Obradors-Campos, C. Oliver, J.M. Perez Morales, F. Sansaloni, F. Toral
                       CIEMAT, Madrid, Spain

 


 

Funding: Work partially funded by the CDTI and supported by the Spanish Ministry of Science and Innovation under project AMIT, within the subprogramme CENIT-2009.
The AMIT cyclotron will be a 8.5 MeV, 10 μA CW H− accelerator which aims to deliver a beam for radioisotope production. In order to properly validate all the beam commissioning steps, a set of diagnostics needs to be implemented. They must cover all the commissioning phases: ion source characterization, medium energy acceleration and nominal energy at full current. Due to compactness of the design, the number of beam diagnostics is limited and restricted to the most essential ones during operation. An overview of the diagnostics that are planned for the characterization of the cyclotron will be discussed in this contribution. In all the commissioning phases, beam current probes are essential to validate the cyclotron and each subsystem. As a main diagnostic, a moveable probe has been designed and simulated for optimization of the cyclotron. The thermal simulations of the probe and the mechanical integration will be presented.

 


 



WEPC05
The ELENA Beam Diagnostics Systems
664


 

G. Tranquille
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The Extra Low ENergy Antiproton ring (ELENA) to be built at CERN is aimed at substantially increasing the number of antiprotons to the low energy antiproton physics community. It will be a small machine which will decelerate low intensity beams (<4x107) from 5.3 MeV to 100 keV and will be equipped with an electron cooler to avoid beam losses during the deceleration and to significantly reduce beam phase space at extraction. To measure the beam parameters from the extraction point of the Antiproton Decelerator (AD), through the ELENA ring and all the way to the experiments, many systems will be needed to ensure that the desired beam characteristics are obtained. Particular attention needs to be paid to the performance of the electron cooler which depends on reliable instrumentation in order to efficiently cool the antiprotons. This contribution will present the different monitors that have been proposed to measure the various beam parameters as well as some of the developments going on to further improve the ELENA diagnostics.

 






Poster WEPC05 [1.767 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC06
Beam Instrumentation in the ESS Cold Linac
667


 

C. Böhme, B. Cheymol, I. Dolenc Kittelmann, H. Hassanzadegan, A. Jansson
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden

 


 

Parts of the linac of the European Spallation Source will consist of cryogenic cavity modules. In between these will be warm sections at room temperature to host amongst others the beam instrumentation. Each of the warm sections will host two beam position monitors and one or two other instruments, which might be a beam current monitor, invasive and non-invasive transverse beam profile monitor, bunch shape monitor, or halo monitor. The concept of the warm section layout will be shown and the planned instrumentation will be presented.

 


 



WEPC07
Development of the RF Front End Electronics for the SIRIUS BPM System
670


 

R.A. Baron, F.H. Cardoso, S.R. Marques, J.L.B. Neto
                       LNLS, Campinas, Brazil
J.-C. Denard
                       SOLEIL, Gif-sur-Yvette, France

 


 

Tight stability requirements for new low emittance light sources, such as SIRIUS being built in Brazil, strongly depend on the BPM RF Front-End performance. Small nonlinearities, uneven temperature drifts and excess noise can spoil the performance of the whole digital BPM system and orbit correction. Calibration and temperature control schemes have been tested in order to suppress position measurement drifts during user beam delivery down to a fraction of micrometer. A method for measuring electronic component nonlinearities at mdB scale is also presented.

 






Poster WEPC07 [1.236 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC08
Vibration Measurement and its Effect on Beam Stability at NSLS2
674


 

W.X. Cheng, A.K. Jain, S. Krinsky, S.K. Sharma, C.J. Spataro
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

Vibration measurements have been carried out at NSLS2. The floor has more than 100nm RMS vertical motion during workdays (>1Hz). This motion reduces to 30nm RMS during night and weekends. Traffic on the nearby expressway is considered to be the major source of ground motion. Weather (wind) and utility system induced vibrations are other possible factors on floor motion. Vibrations have been measured at various locations, like the tunnel and experiment floor, HXN long beamline satellite building floor, high stability BPMs, Quadrupole magnets etc. Assume a typical un-correlated motion of Quadrpole magnets of 100nm, beam orbit jitter is around 4-7 microns. Fast orbit feedback will control the orbit stability within 10% of beam size.

 


 



WEPC09
Performance of NSLS2 Button BPM
678


 

W.X. Cheng, B. Bacha, B.N. Kosciuk, S. Krinsky, O. Singh
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

Several types of button BPMs are used in NSLS2 complex. Coaxial vacuum feedthroughs are used to couple the beam induced signal out. The feedthroughs are designed to match the external transmission line and electronics with characteristic impedance of 50 Ohm. Performances of these BPM feedthroughs are presented in this paper.

 


 



WEPC10
Capability Upgrade of the Diamond Transverse Multibunch Feedback
682


 

M.G. Abbott, G. Rehm, I.S. Uzun
                       Diamond, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom

 


 

We describe an upgrade to the Transverse Multi-Bunch Feedback processor used at Diamond for control of multi-bunch instabilities and measurement of betatron tunes. The new system will improve both feedback and diagnostic capabilities. Bunch by bunch selectable control over feedback filters, gain and excitation will allow finer control over feedback, allowing for example the single bunch in a hybrid or camshaft fill pattern to be controlled independently from the bunch train. It will also be possible to excite all bunches at a single frequency while simultaneously sweeping the excitation for tune measurement of a few selected bunches. The single frequency excitation can be used for bunch cleaning or continuous measurement of the beta-function. A simple programmable event sequencer will provide support for up to 8 steps of programmable sweeps and changes to feedback and excitation, allowing a variety of complex and precisely timed beam characterisation experiments including grow-damp measurements in unstable conditions.

 






Poster WEPC10 [0.427 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC11
Radiation Resistance Testing of Commercial Components for the New SPS Beam Position Measurement System
686


 

C. Deplano, J. Albertone, T.B. Bogey, J.L. Gonzalez, J.-J. Savioz
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

A new Front-End (FE) electronics is under development for the SPS Multi Orbit POsition System (MOPOS). To cover the large dynamic range of beam intensities (70dB) to be measured in the SPS, the beam position monitor signals are processed using logarithmic amplifiers. They are then digitized locally and transmitted via optical fibers over long distances (up to 1km) to VME acquisition boards located in surface buildings. The FE board is designed to be located in the SPS tunnel, where it must cope with a radiation dose rate of up to 100 Gy per year. Analogue components, such as Logarithmic Amplifiers, ADC-Drivers and Voltage regulators, have been tested at PSI for radiation hardness, while several families of bidirectional SFP, both single-fiber and double-fiber, have been tested at both PSI and CNRAD. This paper gives a description of the overall system architecture and presents the results of the radiation hardness tests in detail.

 






Poster WEPC11 [3.299 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC12
Evaluation of Strip-line Pick-up System for the SPS Wideband Transverse Feedback System
690


 

G. Kotzian, W. Höfle, R.J. Steinhagen, D. Valuch, U. Wehrle
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The proposed SPS Wideband Transverse Feedback system requires a wide-band pick-up system to be able to detect intra-bunch motion within the SPS proton bunches, captured and accelerated in a 200 MHz bucket. We present the electro-magnetic design of transverse beam position pick-up options optimised for installation in the SPS and evaluate their performance reach with respect to direct time domain sampling of the intra-bunch motion. The analysis also discusses the achieved subsystem responses of the associated cabling with new low dispersion smooth wall cables, wide-band generation of intensity and position signals by means of 180 degree RF hybrids as well as passive techniques to electronically suppress the beam offset signal, needed to optimise the dynamic range and position resolution of the planned digital intra-bunch feedback system.

 


 



WEPC13
Optimisation of the SVD Treatment in the Fast Orbit Correction of the ESRF Storage Ring
694


 

E. Plouviez, F. Epaud, L. Farvacque, J.M. Koch
                       ESRF, Grenoble, France

 


 

The ESRF fast orbit correction system has been in operation since May 2012. The orbit correction scheme relies classically on the calculation of a correction orbit based on the SVD analysis of the response matrix of our 224 BPMs to each of our 96 correctors. The rate of the calculation of the corrections is 10 KHz; we use a PI loop achieving a bandwidth of 150Hz completed with a narrow band pass filter with extra gain at 50Hz. In order to make the best use of the correctors dynamic range and of the resolution of the calculation, it can be useful to limit the bandwidth of loop for the highest order vectors of the SVD, or even to totally remove some of these vectors from the correction down to DC. Removing some of the eigen vectors while avoiding that the loop becomes unstable usually increases a lot the complexity of the matrix calculations: we have developed an algorithm which overcomes this problem; The test of this algorithm is presented. We present also the beneficial effect at high frequency of the limitation of the gain of the correction of the highest SVD eigen vectors on the demand of the peak strength of the correctors and on the resolution of the correction calculation.

 






Poster WEPC13 [0.974 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC14
Development of High Precision Beam Position Monitor Readout System with Narrow Bandpass Filters for the KEKB Injector Linac Towards the SuperKEKB
698


 

R. Ichimiya, K. Furukawa, F. Miyahara, M. Satoh, T. Suwada
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

The SuperKEKB accelerator complexes are now being upgraded to bring the world highest luminosity (L=8x1035/cm2/s). Hence, the KEKB Injector Linac is required to produce: electron: 20 mm mrad (7GeV, 5nC), positron: 10 mm mrad (4GeV, 4nC). To achieve this, the accelerator components have to be aligned within ± 0.1mm (1 σ). BPM is essential instrumentation for Beam Based Alignment, and is required one magnitude better position resolution to get better alignment results. Since current BPM readout system using oscilloscopes has ~50um position resolution, we decided to develop high precision BPM readout system with narrow bandpass filters. It handles two bunches with 96ns interval and has a dynamic range between 0.1nC (for photon factory) to 10nC (positron primary). To achieve these criteria, we adopt semiconductor attenuators and optimized two-stage Bessel filters at 300MHz center frequency to meet both time and frequency domain constraints. To correct position drift due to gain imbalance during operation, calibration pulses are output to the BPM between beam cycles (20ms). The beam position and charge calculations are performed by onboard FPGA to achieve fast readout cycle.

 






Poster WEPC14 [3.039 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC15
Development of the Beam Position Monitors System for the LINAC of SPIRAL2
702


 

P. Ausset, M. Ben Abdillah, J. Lesrel, E. Marius
                       IPN, Orsay, France
T. Ananthkrishnan, S.K. Bharade, G. Joshi, P.D. Motiwala, C.K. Pithawa
                       BARC, Trombay, Mumbai, India
V. Nanal, R.G. Pillay
                       TIFR, Mumbai, India

 


 

The SPIRAL 2 facility will deliver stable heavy ion and deuteron beams at very high intensity, producing and accelerating light and heavy rare ion beams. The driver will accelerate between 0.15mA and 5 mA deuteron beam up to 20 MeV/u and q/A=1/3 heavy ions up to 14.5 MeV/u. It is being built on the site of the Grand Accelerator National d’Ions Lourds at CAEN (France) The accurate tuning of the LINAC is essential for the operation of SPIRAL2 and requires from the Beam Position Monitor (BPM) system the measurements of the beam transverse position, the phase of the beam with respect to the radiofrequency voltage and the beam energy. This paper addresses the advancement made during the last twelve months on the realization of the 22 BPM required for the SPIRAL 2 LINAC. The BPM sensors are now completed and tested. The design of the acquisition card for the BPM is given and will be described. The prototype card is now under test and the first results are given. The aim is to verify the main parameters: sensitivity, position and phase measurement and the appropriate behavior of the BPM acquisition card in all cases (pulsed, electrode signal reconstruction, interlock, post mortem)

 


 



WEPC16
The Design of BPM Electronic System for CSNS RCS
706


 

W. Lu, H.Y. Sheng, X.C. Tian, J.W. Zhao, Y.B. Zhao
                       IHEP, Bejing, People's Republic of China

 


 

A Beam Position Monitor (BPM) system has been designed for the Rapid Cycling Synchrotron (RCS) at the China Spallation Neutron Source (CSNS) to acquire beam position information. This article introduces the design and implementation of the BPM electronic system. The challenge of designing the BPM electronics is to acquire and process the signal with large dynamic range (5.8mV~32V) and changing width (80ns to 500ns). The analog circuit described in this paper, which is constructed of a single-stage operational amplifier and an analog switch, can cover the input signal with large dynamic range. Because of the minimum bunch length (80ns) and the requirement of position resolution, a 14 bit 250MHz ADC is adopted to digitize the signal. Besides, for BPM system, the demand of an accurate real-time position monitoring is mandatory. The algorithm developed in an FPGA is able to make Bunch-by-Bunch position calculation and Closed Orbit position calculation in real time. Also, some preliminary test results will be presented and discussed, which show that the resolution of Bunch-by-Bunch position is 0.8mm when the input signal is 5.8mV and the resolution of Closed Orbit position is 50um.

 






Poster WEPC16 [0.937 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC17
Design and Simulation of Beam Position Monitor for the CADS Injector I Proton Linac
710


 

Y.F. Sui, J.S. Cao, H.Z. Ma, Q. Ye, J. Yue
                       IHEP, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NO. 11205172)
Beam Position Monitors (BPM) based on both capacitive and stripline pick-ups are designed for the China Accelerator Driven Subcritical system (C-ADS) Injector I proton LINAC. The BPM will be installed to measure the transverse beam position in the LINAC, of which the beam parameters are listed as current 10mA, energy 10MeV and the repetition frequency 325MHz. This contribution presents the status of the BPM design development and focuses on the design of the pick-ups and CST Particle Studio simulation results, including impedance, sensitivity, time domain, frequency domain response, etc. The main goal of the simulation is optimization of the mechanical design.

 


 



WEPC18
Development of Compact Electronics Dedicated to  Beam Position Monitors in Injectors and Boosters
713


 

G. Jug, M. Cargnelutti
                       I-Tech, Solkan, Slovenia
K.B. Scheidt
                       ESRF, Grenoble, France

 


 

The need for state-of-the-art electronics for data-acquisition and processing of BPM signals in Injector and/or Booster Synchrotrons is being addressed in a development that aims at making such system available with less complexity and yet fulfilling precisely the needs of such specific BPMs. The ESRF Booster Synchrotron uses 75 BPMs in its 300m circumference to measure the orbit along its acceleration cycle of 50 milliseconds for the electron beam from 0.2 to 6GeV. The 25 year old electronics of these BPMs are in need of replacement. While BPM developments in recent years have focused on devices for Storage Rings that face extreme requirements like sub-micron drift with time, beam intensity, etc. that result in complicated implementation schemes. This new development combines both the simplification in the measurement concept and the implementation of novelties like compact design integrating RF electronics, with power-over-Ethernet supply and passive cooling, a powerful System-on-Chip engine and easy communication via SCPI commands. This paper will present the full design concept and its aimed functionalities as a BPM device that should offer an excellent price/performance ratio.

 


 



WEPC19
Performance of Injection Beam Position Monitors in the J-PARC RCS
716


 

N. Hayashi, P.K. Saha
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-Mura, Naka-Gun, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan
T. Toyama
                       J-PARC, KEK & JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan

 


 

It is important to monitor the injected beam trajectory and position into a synchrotron ring. In the J-PARC RCS, there are two specialized beam position monitors (BPM) in the first arc section in order to perform continuous monitoring. They detect the linac RF frequency 324 MHz or its second harmonics, these contributions quickly decrease after a few turns in the ring. Therefore, they are sensitive only just injected beam. The RCS adopts the multi-turn injection and transverse painting. These monitors are useful to check the beam behavior on-line.

 


 



WEPC20
Bunch Extension Monitor for LINAC of SPIRAL2 facility
720


 

R.V. Revenko, J.L. Vignet
                       GANIL, Caen, France

 


 

Funding: This work is funded in frame of CRISP project.
Measurements of the bunch longitudinal shape of beam particles are crucial for optimization and control of the LINAC beam parameters and maximization of its integrated luminosity. The non-interceptive bunch extension monitor for LINAC of SPIRAL2 facility is being developed at GANIL. The five bunch extension monitors are to be installed on the entrance of LINAC between superconducting cavities. The principle of monitor operation is based on registration of x-rays induced by ions of accelerator beam and emitted from thin tungsten wire. The monitor consists of two parts: system for wire insertion and positioning and x-ray detector based on microchannel plates. The prototype of detector has been developed and was tested using protons and heavy ions beams.

 






Poster WEPC20 [9.366 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC21
Design and Beam Test Results of Button BPMs for the European XFEL
723


 

D.M. Treyer, R. Baldinger, R. Ditter, B. Keil, W. Koprek, G. Marinkovic, M. Roggli
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland
D. Lipka, D. Nölle, S. Vilcins
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

Funding: Swiss State Secretariat for Education, Research and Innovation
The European X-ray Free Electron Laser (E-XFEL) will use a total ~300 button BPMs along the whole accelerator, as well as 160 cavity BPMs. The pickups for the button BPMs have been designed by DESY, whereas the electronics has been developed by PSI. This paper gives an overview of the button BPM system, with focus on the RF front end electronics, signal processing, and overall system performance. Measurement results achieved with prototypes installed at FLASH/DESY and at the SwissFEL Injector Test Facility (SITF) are presented. The position noise obtained with button pickups in a 40.5 mm aperture beam pipe is as low as ~11 um at 20 pC bunch charge.

 






Poster WEPC21 [1.595 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC22
First Steps Towards a Fast Orbit Feedback at ALBA
727


 

A. Olmos, S. Blanch-Torné, Z. Martí, J. Moldes, M. Muñoz, R. Petrocelli, X. Serra-Gallifa
                       CELLS-ALBA Synchrotron, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain
A. Gutierrez-Milla
                       UAB, Barcelona, Spain

 


 

An optimum performance of the ALBA facility requires a beam orbit stability on the sub-micron level up to frequencies in the 100 Hz range. The Fast Orbit FeedBack system (FOFB) is designed to achieve such a stability. After investigation of possible system architecture, a decision has been taken that exploits the available in-house hardware. This “low-cost” first stage FOFB will be an ideal test-bench to learn about beam stabilization and find possible problems and improvements on it. This report explains the current lay-out and status of the FOFB at ALBA.

 






Poster WEPC22 [3.107 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC23
Design of an Ultra-Compact Stripline BPM Receiver using MicroTCA for LCLS-II at SLAC
731


 

C. Xu, S. Babel, S. L. Hoobler, R.S. Larsen, J.J. Olsen, S.R. Smith, T. Straumann, D. Van Winkle, A. Young
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by U.S. Department of Energy under Contract Numbers DE-AC02-06CH11357 and DE-AC02-76SF00515
The Linac Coherent Light Source II (LCLS II) is a free electron laser (FEL) light source. LCLS II will be able to produce 0.5 to 77 Angstroms soft and hard x-rays. In order to achieve this high level of performance, the electron beam needs to be stable and accurate. The LCLS II stripline BPM system has a dynamic range of 10pC to 1nC beam charge. The system has a 3.5 micrometer resolution at 250pC beam charge in an one inch diameter stripline BPM structure. The BPM system uses the MicroTCA physics platform that consists of analog front-end (AFE) and 16-bit analog to digital convertor (ADC) module. The paper will discuss the hardware design, architecture, and performance measurements on the SLAC LINAC. The hardware architecture includes bandpass filter at 300MHz with 15 MHz band-width, and BPM calibration process without communicating with the CPU module. The system will be able to process multibunch beams with 40ns spacing.

 






Poster WEPC23 [1.769 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC24
Performance Measurements of the New X-Band Cavity BPM Receiver
735


 

A. Young, J.E. Dusatko, S. L. Hoobler, J.J. Olsen, T. Straumann
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA
C. Kim
                       PAL, Pohang, Kyungbuk, Republic of Korea

 


 

Funding: Work supported by U.S. Department of Energy under Contract Numbers DE-AC02-06CH11357 and DE-AC02-76SF00515
SLAC is developing a new X-band Cavity BPM receiver for use in the LCLS-II. The Linac Coherent Light Source II (LCLS-II) will be a free electron laser (FEL) at SLAC producing coherent 0.5-77 Angstroms hard and soft x-rays. To achieve this level of performance precise, stable alignment of the electron beam in the undulator is required. The LCLS-II cavity BPM system will provide single shot resolution better than 50 nm resolution at 200 pC*. The Cavity BPM heterodyne receiver is located in the tunnel close to the cavity BPM. The receiver will processes the TM010 monopole reference cavity signal and a TM110 dipole cavity signal at approximately 11 GHz using a heterodyne technique. The heterodyne receiver will be capable of detecting a multibunch beam with a 50ns fill pattern. A new LAN communication daughter board will allow the receiver to talk to an input-output-controller (IOC) over 100 meters to set gains, control the phase locked local oscillator, and monitor the status of the receiver. We will describe the design methodology including noise analysis, Intermodulation Products analysis.
* Commissioning and Performance of LCLS Cavity BPMs, Stephen Smith, et al., Proc. of PAC 2009

 






Poster WEPC24 [0.251 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC25
Optimisation of a Split Plate Position Monitor for the ISIS Proton Synchrotron
739


 

C.C. Wilcox, J.C. Medland, S.J. Payne, A. Pertica, M.A. Probert
                       STFC/RAL/ISIS, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom

 


 

A new Beam Position Monitor (BPM) has been designed for the ISIS proton accelerator facility at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory in the UK. The new monitor, which will be installed in the beam line to Target 1, is of a ‘split plate’ design which utilises two pairs of electrodes to allow the beam position to be measured simultaneously in the horizontal and vertical planes. Simulations carried out using the CST low frequency solver have highlighted the inaccuracies in the measured beam position caused by strong inter-electrode coupling in such a monitor. This coupling, along with imbalanced electrode capacitances, leads to reduced sensitivity to changes in beam position as well as producing a positional offset error. This paper describes how the problems associated with inter-electrode coupling have been removed with the addition of grounded rings placed between each of the four electrodes. The design and positioning of the rings also ensured that the four electrode capacitances were matched. The results are presented both as CST simulations of ‘thin wire’ beam position measurements and results from bench measurements of a prototype dual plane BPM.

 


 



WEPC26
Pickup Electrode Electrodynamics Investigation
742


 

A. Kalinin
                       STFC/DL/ASTeC, Daresbury, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom

 


 

Waves induced in a pickup by beam were investigated on a large scale model, using 10ps step in coaxial line as beam, and a differentiating capacitive probe. The probe signal was observed at 20GHz oscilloscope. In each of the front and rear transverse gaps between pickup electrode and wall (button pickup), a shorter-than-gap bunch excites a ‘plain-wave’ packet which length is of the order of gap length over c. Two packets are spaced by electrode length over c. The packets propagate along the electrode to a coaxial connector. At this low impedance common point each of the packets partially reflects back and partially passes into the opposite gap. The voltage appearing on the impedance excites two TEM-wave packets: one propagates backwards, another one propagates forward through connector. The connector output is sum of two such packets spaced the same as two incident packets. The packets propagating backwards reflect from the electrode open end, come back to the summing point and generate output in similar way. The same processes occur in a pickup with single gap electrodes (stripline pickup). This phenomenological picture can be used as a guide in pickup design and simulation.

 






Poster WEPC26 [0.647 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC28
Bunch By Bunch Transverse Beam Position Observation and Analyze During Injection at SSRF
746


 

Y.B. Leng, Y.B. Yan, Y. Yang, R.X. Yuan, N. Zhang
                       SSRF, Shanghai, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: Work supported by National Science Foundation of China (No. 11075198)
Top-up operation has been performed at SSRF since Dec. 2012. Orbit disturbance every 10 minutes decreased the quality of synchrotron radiation. In order to minimize this disturbance the tilts and the timing of injection kickers need to be tuning carefully based on real beam information. A set of button type pick-up and a scope based IOC were employed to capture the transient beam movement with bunch by bunch rate during injection. Several sets of observation and analyze will be discussed in this paper.

 


 



WEPC31
New Design of the 40 GHz Bunch Arrival Time Monitor Using MTCA.4 Electronics at FLASH and for the European XFEL
749


 

M.K. Czwalinna, C. Gerth, H. Schlarb
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany
S. Bou Habib
                       Warsaw University of Technology, Institute of Electronic Systems, Warsaw, Poland
S. Korolczuk, J. Szewiński
                       NCBJ, Świerk/Otwock, Poland
A. Kuhl
                       Uni HH, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

At free-electron lasers, today's pump-probe experiments and seeding schemes make high demands on the electron bunch timing stability with an arrival time jitter reduction down to the femtosecond level. At FLASH and the upcoming European XFEL, the bunch train structures with their high bunch repetition rates allow for an accurate intra-train stabilisation. To realise longitudinal beam-based feedbacks a reliable and precise arrival time detection over a broad range of bunch charges, which can even change from 1 nC down to 20 pC within a bunch train, is essential. Benefitting from the experience at FLASH, the current bunch arrival time monitors (BAMs), based on detection of RF signals from broad-band pick-ups by use of electro-optic modulators, are further developed to cope with the increased requirements. In this paper, we present the new BAM prototype, including an adapted electro-optical front-end and the latest development of the read-out electronics based on the MTCA.4 platform.

 


 



WEPC32
Past, Present and Future Aspects of Laser-Based Synchronization at FLASH
753


 

S. Schulz, M. Bousonville, M.K. Czwalinna, M. Felber, M. Heuer, T. Lamb, J. Müller, P. Peier, S. Ruzin, H. Schlarb, B. Steffen, C. Sydlo, F. Zummack
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany
T. Kozak, P. Predki
                       TUL-DMCS, Łódź, Poland
A. Kuhl
                       Uni HH, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

Free-electron lasers, like FLASH and the upcoming European XFEL, are capable of producing XUV and X-ray pulses of a few femtoseconds duration. For time-resolved pump-probe experiments and the externally seeded operation mode it is crucial not only to stabilize the arrival time of the electron bunches, but also to achieve a synchronization accuracy of external lasers on the same timescale. This can only be realized with a laser-based synchronization infrastructure. At FLASH, a periodic femtosecond laser pulse train is transmitted over actively stabilized optical fibers to the critical subsystems. In this paper we report on the present status and performance of the system, as well as its imminent upgrades and new installations. These include the connection of FLASH2, electron bunch arrival time monitors for low charges, a new master laser pulse distribution scheme, all-optical synchronization of the pump-probe laser and arrival time measurements of the UV pulses on the e-gun photocathode. Along with the coming connection of the acceleration modules to the master laser and the switch of the low-level hardware to the uTCA platform, an outlook to improved feedback strategies is given.

 


 



WEPC33
Upgrade of Beam Phase Monitors for the ESRF Injector and Storage Ring
757


 

K.B. Scheidt, B. Joly
                       ESRF, Grenoble, France

 


 

The measurement of the phase relation between the stored beam in the Storage Ring and the beam circulating in the Booster Synchrotron is now done with high precision and at high speed using a single unit of commercial BPM electronics. The quadrature demodulation, driven by a common PLL, done in these digital electronics on each of its four RF input channels makes the relative measurement of the I/Q components, hence phase relation, easy and strait forward. The RF signals of the relatively low current Booster come from two stripline outputs while that of the Storage Ring from two small BPM buttons. Treating simultaneously four signals, thus with a redundancy of two to measure the phase between two sources, allows to perform intrinsic shot-to-shot cross verifications on resolution and reproducibility. The long-term stability of this device has also been successfully assessed by independent verifications against time and temperature drifts. An identical unit has now been added for phase measurements between the Storage Ring beam and the RF cavity signals. Results with beam and assessment of its scope of performance will be presented on both systems.

 






Poster WEPC33 [0.836 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC34
Time Trend Observation of Certain Remarked Bunches using a Streak Camera
761


 

T. Naito, S. Araki, H. Hayano, K. Kubo, S. Kuroda, T.M. Mitsuhashi, T. Okugi, S. Sakanaka, N. Terunuma, J. Urakawa
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

Funding: This work is supported by Japan-U.S. cooperative program .
A streak camera with two dimensional sweep function can measure the trend of the longitudinal beam profile in the ring. In the case of the multi-bunch measurement, the different bunch profile sit on same timing, thus, we can not distinguish the behavior of each bunch. We have developed a trigger circuit to measure the bunch-by-bunch longitudinal beam profile, which uses non integer sweep frequency for the acceleration frequency. The bunch profile of each bunch sit on different position in this measurement. We observed the increment of the synchrotron oscillation amplitude from the first bunch to the 20th bunch in the KEK-ATF Damping Ring by using this system. This paper describes the hardware and the measurement results.

 


 



WEPC35
Progress Report of the Spectral Decoding Based EOS with Organic Pockels EO Crystals
765


 

Y. Okayasu, S. Matsubara, H. Tomizawa
                       JASRI/SPring-8, Hyogo-ken, Japan
T. Matsukawa, H. Minamide
                       RIKEN ASI, Sendai, Miyagi, Japan
K. Ogawa
                       RIKEN SPring-8 Center, Sayo-cho, Sayo-gun, Hyogo, Japan

 


 

Funding: Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research (Japan Society for the Promotion of Science, Grants No. 20612024 and No. 23360045)
So far, the temporal structure of ultrashort electron bunches has been extensively investigated by various kinds of electro-optic sampling (EOS) techniques, such as temporal, spectral and spatial decoding method, at several FEL accelerator facilities since early 2000’s. Inorganic Pockels EO crystals, i.e., GaP and ZnTe, have been generally utilized for the EOS. On the other hand, since mid-1980’s, organic nonlinear optical materials have been extensively investigated and DAST*, which has fast temporal response in the EO effect, was developed in 1986**. DAST is transparent in visible near to IR wavelength range and absorbent in 0.8-1.3 THz. We introduced the DAST crystal into the EOS and successfully demonstrated the first observation of the bunch charge distribution at the EUV-FEL accelerator, SPring-8 on February 2012***. Through the previous experiment, it is found that the EO signal intensity was gradually decreased. On March and April 2013, we prepared DAST crystals with variety of thickness and succeeded to compare EO signal intensities with different bunch charges. Recent results of both optical and structural analysis will be reported in addition to experimental results.
*4-N, N-dimethylamino-4’-N’-methyl stilbazolium tosylate  **S. Okada et al., Japan Patent Application 61-192404 (1986)  ***Y. Okayasu et al., Phys. Rev. ST Accel. Beams 16, 052801 (2013) 

 


 



WEPC36
Development of Electron Bunch Compression Monitors for SwissFEL
769


 

F. Frei, B. Beutner, I. Gorgisyan, R. Ischebeck, G.L. Orlandi, P. Peier, E. Prat, V. Schlott, B. Smit
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland
P. Peier
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

SwissFEL will be a hard x-ray fourth generation light source to be built at Paul Scherrer Institut (PSI), Switzerland. In SwissFEL the electron bunches will be produced with a length of 3ps and will then be compressed by a factor of more than 1000 down to a few fs in order to generate ultra short x-ray pulses. Therefore reliable, accurate and noninvasive longitudinal diagnostic is essential after each compressing stage. In order to meet the requirements of this machine, new monitors have to be developed. We will present recent results of setups that measure electro-magnetic radiation, namely edge, synchrotron and diffraction radiation, emitted by the electron bunches (far field, spectral domain). These monitors are tested in the SwissFEL Injector Test Facility. A state of the art S-band Transverse Deflecting Cavity together with a Screen Monitor is used for calibration.

 


 



WEPC38
Current Status of Development of Optical Synchronization System for PAL XFEL
772


 

C.-K. Min, I. Eom, H.-S. Kang, B.R. Park, S.J. Park
                       PAL, Pohang, Kyungbuk, Republic of Korea
K. Jung, J. Kim, J. Lim
                       KAIST, Daejeon, Republic of Korea

 


 

Optical synchronization system has been developed for higher quality PAL XFEL with low timing jitter since 2011. In last two years, laboratory test was successfully performed, and test in our accelerator environment is ongoing. In laboratory, we tested the synchronization of RF master oscillator and optical master oscillator, the stabilization of 610 m optical fiber link, and the remote optical-to-RF conversion. We report recent our development results and summarize on-going optical timing project.

 






Poster WEPC38 [3.366 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC39
First Tests of the Top-up Gating at Synchrotron SOLEIL
775


 

J.P. Ricaud, L. Cassinari, P. Dumas, P. Lebasque, A. Nadji
                       SOLEIL, Gif-sur-Yvette, France

 


 

Since 2006, Synchrotron SOLEIL is delivering photons to its beamlines. Until 2012, thanks to the excellent performances of the injection system of the storage ring, the perturbation on the position of the stored beam was small enough to be accepted by the users. For some specific experiments, few beamlines expressed their wish to be able to stop their data acquisition during the injection. To fulfill this need, the diagnostics group of Synchrotron SOLEIL has designed the “TimEX3” board which was integrated into the timing system allowing the gating of the Top-up injection. This design was released as open hardware. Towards this aim, we decided to design it with the open source and free EDA software “KiCad”, and to make it available under the CERN’s Open Hardware Repository.

 






Poster WEPC39 [0.521 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC40
Pickup Signal Improvement for High Bandwidth BAMs for FLASH and European - XFEL
778


 

A. Angelovski, R. Jakoby, A. Penirschke
                       TU Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany
M.K. Czwalinna, H. Schlarb, C. Sydlo
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany
T. Weiland
                       TEMF, TU Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

In order to measure the arrival time of the electron bunches in low (20 pC) and high (1 nC) charge operation mode, new high bandwidth pickups were developed as a part of the Bunch Arrival-time Monitors (BAMs) for FLASH at DESY *. The pickup signal is transported via radiation resistant coaxial cables to the electro-optic modulator (EOM) **. Due to the high losses of the 40 GHz RF front-end the signal in the RF path is attenuated well below the optimal operation voltage of the EOM. To improve the overall performance, the signal strength of the induced pickup signal needs to be increased and at the same time the losses in the RF front-end significantly reduced. In this paper, the analysis towards improving the induced pickup signal strength is presented. Simulations are performed with the CST STUDIO SUITE package and the results are compared with the state of the art high bandwidth pickups.
* A. Angelovski et al., Phys. Rev. ST Accel. Beams 15, 112803 (2012) ** A. Penirschke et al., Proc. of IBIC2012, Tsukuba, Japan (2012)

 


 



WEPC41
Comparative Analysis of Different Electro-Optical Intensity Modulator Candidates for the New 40 GHz Bunch Arrival Time Monitor System for FLASH and European XFEL
782


 

A. Kuhl, J. Rönsch-Schulenburg, J. Roßbach
                       Uni HH, Hamburg, Germany
M.K. Czwalinna, C. Gerth, H. Schlarb, C. Sydlo
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany
S. Schnepp
                       ETH Zurich, Institute of Electromagnetic Fields (IFH), Zurich, Switzerland
T. Weiland
                       TEMF, TU Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

Funding: The work is supported by Federal Ministry of Education and Research of Germany (BMBF) within FSP 301 under the contract numbers 05K10GU2 and 05K10RDA.
The currently installed Bunch Arrival time Monitors (BAMs) at the Free electron LASer in Hamburg (FLASH) achieved a time resolution of less than 10 fs for bunch charges higher than 500 pC. In order to achieve single spike FEL pulses at FLASH, electron bunch charges down to 20 pC are of interest. With these BAMs the required time resolution is not reachable for bunch charges below 500 pC. Therefore new pickups with a bandwidth of up to 40 GHz are designed and manufactured*. The signal evaluation takes place with a time-stabilized reference laser pulse train which is modulated with an Electro-Optical intensity Modulator (EOM). The new BAM system also requires new EOMs for the electro-optical frontend. The available selection of commercial EOM candidates for the new frontend is very limited. In this paper we present a comparison between different EOM candidates for the new electro optical frontend.
* A. Angelovski et al. Proceedings Phys. Rev ST AB, DOI:10.1103/PhysRevSTAB.15.112803

 






Poster WEPC41 [0.619 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC42
Design of a Time-Resolving Laser Wire for Large Dynamic Range Measurements
786


 

P.E. Evtushenko, M. Marchlik
                       JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by US DOE office of Basic Energy Sciences under the early career program; DOE award number FWP#JLAB-BES11-05
Better diagnostics and understanding of beam halo are needed for high average current CW SRF electron linacs. Here longitudinal beam halo upstream of the linac evolves in to transverse halo downstream of the linac. A diagnostic for measurements longitudinal phase space distribution with large dynamic range (LDR) is needed for proper setup of an injector and better understanding of beam halo formation. In addition, one of unsolved ERL’s diagnostic problems is the transverse beam size monitoring of a high average current, few MeV energy beam. We present our design for a Thomson scattering based CW laser wire system for LDR transverse beam profile measurements. It is designed to be used with CW beam starting with an average current of about 150 μA, but can, as it is non-destructive and non-intercepting, be use at any average current. When implemented in a dispersive section it can be used for energy distribution measurements. Using a short pulse laser adds time resolution to the diagnostic. Combining time and energy resolution, the system will allow measurements of the longitudinal phase space distribution while keeping the LDR due to the counting nature of the detection scheme.

 


 



WEPC43
Update on Beam Loss Monitoring at CTF3 for CLIC
787


 

L.J. Devlin, S. Mallows, C.P. Welsch, E.N. del Busto
                       Cockcroft Institute, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom
E. Branger
                       Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden
L.J. Devlin, S. Mallows, C.P. Welsch, E.N. del Busto
                       The University of Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom
E. Effinger, E.B. Holzer, S. Mallows, E.N. del Busto
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Funding: Work supported by STFC Cockcroft Institute Core Grant No. ST/G008248/1
The primary role of the beam loss monitoring (BLM) system for the compact linear collider (CLIC) study is to work within the machine protection system. Due to the size of the CLIC facility, a BLM that covers large distances along the beamline is highly desirable, in particular for the CLIC drive beam decelerators, which would alternatively require some ~40,000 localised monitors. Therefore, an optical fiber BLM system is currently under investigation which can cover large sections of beamline at a time. A multimode fiber has been installed along the Test Beam Line at the CLIC test facility (CTF3) where the detection principle is based on the production of Cherenkov photons within the fiber resulting from beam loss and their subsequent transport along the fiber where they are then detected at the fiber ends using silicon photomultipliers. Several additional monitors including ACEMs, PEP-II and diamond detectors have also been installed. In this contribution the first results from the BLMs are presented, comparisons of the signals from each BLM are made and the possible achievable longitudinal resolution from the fiber BLM signal considering various loss patterns is discussed.

 


 



WEPC44
Operation of Silicon, Diamond and Liquid Helium Detectors in the Range of Room Temperature to 1.9 Kelvin and After an Irradiation Dose of Several Mega Gray
791


 

C. Kurfuerst, M.R. Bartosik, B. Dehning, T. Eisel, M. Sapinski
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
V. Eremin
                       IOFFE, St. Petersburg, Russia

 


 

At the triplet magnets close to the interaction regions of the LHC, the current Beam Loss Monitoring system is sensitive to the debris from the collision points. For future beams with higher energy and intensity, the expected increase in luminosity and associated increase of the debris from interaction products is expected to compete with any quench-provoking beam losses from the primary proton beams. In order to distinguish between the two, it is proposed to locate the detectors as close as possible to the superconducting coil. The detectors therefore have to be located inside the cold mass of the superconducting magnets in superfluid helium at 1.9 K. Past measurements have shown that in a liquid helium chamber, diamond and silicon detectors are promising candidates for cryogenic beam loss monitors. This contribution will show the results from new high irradiation beam measurements at both room temperature and 1.9 Kelvin to reveal the radiation tolerance of these different detectors.

 


 



WEPC45
Beam Loss Monitoring at the European Spallation Source
795


 

L. Tchelidze, H. Hassanzadegan, A. Jansson, M. Jarosz
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden

 


 

At the European Spallation Source proton linear accelerator will generate 5 MW protons to be delivered to a target. This high power accelerator will require significant amount of beam instrumentation, among which the beam loss monitoring system is one of the most important for operation. An LHC type ionization chamber will be used with ~54 uC/Gy sensitivity. At most 1.5 mGy/sec radiation levels are expected close to the beam pipe during normal operation, resulting in up to 80 nA current signal in detectors. Loss monitor electronics is designed to be able to measure currents as little as 1% of the expected current up to as much as 1% of the total beam loss, thus ~800 pA – few mA. In order to study beam loss pattern along the accelerator a coherent model of the whole machine is created for the purposes of Monte Carlo particle transport simulations. Data obtained using the model will be stored in a database together with the initial beam loss conditions. The contents of the database will then be processed using custom neural network algorithms to optimize number and position of the loss monitors and to provide reference on the beam loss localization during operation of the machine.

 






Poster WEPC45 [1.784 MB]
            
 


 



WEPC46
Beam Delivery Simulation (BDSIM): A Geant4 Based Toolkit for Diagnostics and Loss Simulation
799


 

S.T. Boogert
                       Royal Holloway, University of London, Surrey, United Kingdom
S.T. Boogert, S.M. Gibson, R. Kwee-Hinzmann, L.J. Nevay, J. Snuverink
                       JAI, Egham, Surrey, United Kingdom
L.C. Deacon
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

BDSIM is a Geant4 and C++ based particle tracking code which seamlessly tracks particles in accelerators and particle detectors, including the full range of particle interaction physics processes in Geant4. The code has been used to model the backgrounds in the International Linear Collider (ILC), Compact Linear Collider (CLIC), Accelerator Test Facility 2 (ATF2) and more recently the Large Hadron Collider (LHC). This paper outlines the current code and possible example applications and presents a roadmap for future developments.

 


 




