













IBIC2013 - Table of Session: WECL (Beam Loss Detection)


WECL —  Beam Loss Detection   (18-Sep-13   14:00—15:30)
Chair: K. Wittenburg, DESY, Hamburg, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



WECL1
Optical Fiber Based Beam Loss Monitor for Electron Storage Ring
638


 

T. Obina, Y. Yano
                       KEK, Tsukuba, Japan

 


 

A beam loss monitor using optical fibers has been developed to determine the turn-by-turn loss point of an injected beam at the Photon Factory (PF) 2.5-GeV electron storage ring. Large-core optical fibers were installed along the vacuum chamber of the storage ring that cover the entire storage ring continuously. There are many kinds of beam loss monitors for high energy accelerators, such as PIN diode detector, ionization chamber using coaxial cable, Cherenkov light detector, etc. Among these methods, optical fibers are suitable to determine the beam loss point because of the ease of covering the entire ring with them, they have better time and position resolution, and they are cost effective. In this report, review of beam loss monitors for electron storage rings and LINACs are reported at first, then the result of the optical-fiber beam loss monitor at the KEK-PF are reported. Long-term deterioration by radiation is also reported.

 






Slides WECL1 [3.848 MB]
            
 


 



WECL2
Radiation Damages and Characterization in the SOLEIL Storage Ring
644


 

N. Hubert, P. Brunelle, N. Béchu, L. Cassinari, C. Herbeaux, S. Hustache, J.-F. Lamarre, P. Lebasque, F. Marteau, A. Nadji, L.S. Nadolski
                       SOLEIL, Gif-sur-Yvette, France

 


 

After six years of operation, equipment located close to some vacuum chambers of the SOLEIL storage ring show unexpected damages due to radiation. It has been pointed out that, inside the so called “quadrupole” vacuum chambers, fluorescence X-rays are emitted by the materials that intercept upstream dipole synchrotron radiation. The energy of the emitted X-ray is too high to be significantly attenuated by the aluminum of which the vacuum chamber is made. Diagnostics and means used to characterize this radiation are presented, and measurements are compared to calculations.

 






Slides WECL2 [2.336 MB]
            
 


 



WECL3
The LUPIN Detector: Supporting Least Intrusive Beam Monitoring Technique Through Neutron Detection
648


 

G.P. Manessi, M. Silari
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
M. Caresana
                       Politecnico/Milano, Milano, Italy
M. Ferrarini
                       CNAO Foundation, Milan, Italy
G.P. Manessi, C.P. Welsch
                       Cockcroft Institute, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom
G.P. Manessi, C.P. Welsch
                       The University of Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom

 


 

The Long interval, Ultra-wide dynamic Pile-up free Neutron rem counter (LUPIN) is a novel detector initially developed for radiation protection purposes, specifically conceived for applications in pulsed neutron fields. The detector has a measurement capability varying over many orders of neutron burst intensity, from a single neutron up to thousands of interactions for each burst, without showing any saturation effect. Whilst LUPIN has been developed for applications in the radiation protection fields, its unique properties make it also well suited to support other beam instrumentation. In this contribution, the design of LUPIN is presented in detail and its main characteristics are summarized. Its potential use as beam loss monitor and complementary detector for non-invasive beam monitoring purposes (e.g. to complement a monitor based on proton beam “halo” detection) in medical accelerators is then examined. In the context of its application as a beam loss monitor for hadrontherapy accelerators, results of measurements performed at the Italian National Centre of Hadrontherapy (CNAO) are presented and analyzed.

 






Slides WECL3 [1.431 MB]
            
 


 




