













ICALEPCS2013 - Table of Session: MOMIB (Mini Oral 1)


MOMIB —  Mini Oral 1   (07-Oct-13   16:45—17:15)
Chair: P.A. Folta, LLNL, Livermore, California, USA


Paper
Title
Page



MOMIB01
Sirius Control System: Conceptual Design
51


 

J.G.R.S. Franco, M. Bacchetti, L.J.M. Carvalho, B.V. Luvizotto, B.S. Martins, J.P.S. Martins, P.H. Nallin, A.R.D. Rodrigues, R.P. Silva, G.P. Zanoni
                       LNLS, Campinas, Brazil

 


 

Sirius is a new 3 GeV synchrotron light source currently being designed at the Brazilian Synchrotron Light Laboratory (LNLS) in Campinas, Brazil. The Control System will be heavily distributed and digitally connected to all equipments in order to avoid analog signals cables. A three-layer control system is being planned. The equipment layer uses RS485 serial networks, running at 10Mbps, with a very light proprietary protocol, in order to achieve good performance. The middle layer, interconnecting these serial networks, is based on Single Board Computers, PCs and commercial switches. Operation layer will be composed of PC’s running Control System’s client programs. Special topology will be used for Fast Orbit Feedback with one 10Gbps switch between the beam position monitors electronics and a workstation for corrections calculation and orbit correctors. At the moment, EPICS is the best candidate to manage the Control System.

 






Slides MOMIB01 [0.268 MB]
            
 






Poster MOMIB01 [0.580 MB]
            
 


 



MOMIB02
Development Status of the TPS Control System
54


 

Y.-S. Cheng, Y.-T. Chang, J. Chen, P.C. Chiu, K.T. Hsu, S.Y. Hsu, K.H. Hu, C.H. Huang, C.H. Kuo, D. Lee, C.Y. Liao, C.-J. Wang, C.Y. Wu
                       NSRRC, Hsinchu, Taiwan

 


 

The EPICS was chosen as control system framework for the new project of 3 GeV synchrotron light source (Taiwan Photon Source, TPS). The standard hardware and software components had been defined, and the various IOCs (Input Output Controller) are gradually implemented as various subsystems control platforms. The subsystems control interfaces include event based timing system, Ethernet based power supply control, corrector power supply control, PLC based pulse magnet power supply control and machine protection system, insertion devices motion control system, various diagnostics, and etc. Development of the infrastructure of high level and low level software are on-going. Installation and integration test are in proceeding. Progress will be summarized in the paper.

 






Slides MOMIB02 [0.235 MB]
            
 






Poster MOMIB02 [5.072 MB]
            
 


 



MOMIB03
Control Systems Issues and Planning for eRHIC
58


 

K.A. Brown, P. Chitnis, T. D'Ottavio, J.P. Jamilkowski, J.S. Laster, J. Morris, S. Nemesure, C. Theisen
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Brookhaven Science Associates, LLC under Contract No. DE-AC02-98CH10886 with the U.S. Department of Energy.
The next generation of high-energy nuclear physics experiments involve colliding high-energy electrons with ions, as well as colliding polarized electrons with polarized protons and polarized helions (Helium-3 nuclei). The eRHIC project proposes to add an electron accelerator to the RHIC complex, thus allowing all of these types of experiments to be done by combining existing capabilities with high energy and high intensity electrons. In this paper we describe the controls systems requirements for eRHIC, the technical challenges, and our vision of a control system ten years into the future. What we build over the next ten years will be what is used for the ten years following the start of operations. This presents opportunities to take advantage of changes in technologies but also many challenges in building reliable and stable controls and integrating those controls with existing RHIC systems. This also presents an opportunity to leverage on state of the art innovations and build collaborations both with industry and other institutions, allowing us to build the best and most cost effective set of systems that will allow eRHIC to achieve its goals.

 






Slides MOMIB03 [0.633 MB]
            
 






Poster MOMIB03 [2.682 MB]
            
 


 



MOMIB05
BeagleBone for Embedded Control System Applications
62


 

S. Cleva, L. Pivetta, P. Sigalotti
                       Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A., Basovizza, Italy

 


 

Funding: Work supported in part by the Italian Ministry of University and Research under grants FIRB-RBAP045JF2 and FIRB-RBAP06AWK3
The control system architecture of modern experimental physics facilities needs to meet the requirements of the ever increasing complexity of the controlled devices. Whenever feasible, moving from a distributed architecture based on powerful but complex and expensive computers to an even more pervasive approach based on simple and cheap embedded systems, allows shifting the knowledge close to the devices. The BeagleBone computer, being capable of running a full featured operating system such as GNU/Linux, integrates effectively into the existing control systems and allows executing complex control functions with the required flexibility. The paper discusses the choice of the BeagleBone as embedded platform and reports some examples of control applications recently developed for the ELETTRA and FERMI@Elettra light sources.

 






Slides MOMIB05 [0.436 MB]
            
 






Poster MOMIB05 [1.259 MB]
            
 


 



MOMIB06
Personnel Protection of the CERN SPS North Hall in Fixed Target Primary Ion Mode
66


 

T. Hakulinen, J. Axensalva, F. Havart, S.C. Hutchins, L.K. Jensen, D. Manglunki, P. Ninin, P. Odier, S.B. Reignier, J.P. Ridewood, L. Søby, C. Theis, F. Valentini, D. Vaxelaire, H. Vincke
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

While CERN's Super Proton Synchrotron (SPS) is able to deliver both secondary proton and primary ion beams to fixed targets in the North Area, the experimental areas (North Hall) are widely accessible during beam. In ion mode all normal safety elements involved in producing secondary beams are removed, so that an accidental extraction of a high-intensity proton beam into the North Hall would expose personnel present there to a radiation hazard. This has required an injector reconfiguration restricting operation to either ions or protons. However, demands for operational flexibility of CERN accelerators have led to a need to mix within the same SPS super-cycle both high-intensity proton cycles for LHC or HiRadMat and ion cycles for the North Area. We present an active interlock designed to mitigate this hazard: Beam Current Transformers are used to measure the level of beam intensity, and if above a set threshold, pulsing of the extraction septa is vetoed. The safety function is implemented by means of two logically equivalent but diverse and separate interlock chains. This interlock is expected to be in place once the SPS resumes operation after the first Long Shutdown in 2014.

 






Slides MOMIB06 [0.236 MB]
            
 






Poster MOMIB06 [4.250 MB]
            
 


 



MOMIB07
An OPC-UA Based Architecture for the Control of the ESPRESSO Spectrograph @ VLT
70


 

R. Cirami, V. Baldini, I. Coretti, S. Cristiani, P. Di Marcantonio, M. Mannetta, P. Santin
                       INAF-OAT, Trieste, Italy
D. Mégevand
                       Université de Genève, Observatoire Astronomique, Versoix, Switzerland
F. Zerbi
                       INAF-Osservatorio Astronomico di Brera, Merate, Italy

 


 

ESPRESSO is a fiber-fed, cross-dispersed, high-resolution echelle spectrograph for the ESO Very Large Telescope (VLT). The instrument is designed to combine incoherently the light coming from up to 4 VLT Unit Telescopes. To ensure maximum stability the spectrograph is placed in a thermal enclosure and a vacuum vessel. Abandoning the VME-based technologies previously adopted for the ESO VLT instruments, the ESPRESSO control electronics has been developed around a new concept based on industrial COTS PLCs. This choice ensures a number of benefits like lower costs and less space and power consumption requirement. Moreover it makes possible to structure the whole control electronics in a distributed way using building blocks available commercially off-the-shelf and minimizing in this way the need for custom solutions. The main adopted PLC brand is Beckhoff, whose product lineup satisfies the requirements set by the instrument control functions. OPC-UA is the chosen communication protocol between the PLCs and the instrument control software, which is based on the VLT Control Software package.

 






Slides MOMIB07 [0.419 MB]
            
 






Poster MOMIB07 [32.149 MB]
            
 


 



MOMIB08
Continuous Integration Using LabVIEW, SVN and Hudson
74


 

O.O. Andreassen, A. Tarasenko
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

In the accelerator domain there is a need of integrating industrial devices and creating control and monitoring applications in an easy and yet structured way. The LabVIEW-RADE framework provides the method and tools to implement these requirements and also provides the essential integration of these applications into the CERN controls infrastructure. Building and distributing these core libraries for multiple platforms, e.g.Windows, Linux and Mac, and for different versions of LabVIEW, is a time consuming task that consist of repetitive and cumbersome work. All libraries have to be tested, commissioned and validated. Preparing one package for each variation takes almost a week to complete. With the introduction of Subversion version control (SVN) and Hudson continuous integration server (HCI) the process is now fully automated and a new distribution for all platforms is available within the hour. In this paper we are evaluating the pros and cons of using continuous integration, the time it took to get up and running and the added benefits. We conclude with an evaluation of the framework and indicate new areas of improvement and extension.

 






Slides MOMIB08 [2.990 MB]
            
 






Poster MOMIB08 [6.363 MB]
            
 


 



MOMIB09
ZIO: The Ultimate Linux I/O Framework
77


 

A. Rubini, S. Nellaga
                       University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy
J.D. Gonzalez Cobas, T. Wlostowski
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
F. Vaga
                       GNUDD, Pavia, Italy

 


 

ZIO (with Z standing for "The Ultimate I/O" Framework) was developed for CERN with the specific needs of physics labs in mind, which are poorly addressed in the mainstream Linux kernel. ZIO provides a framework for industrial, high-throughput, high-channel count I/O device drivers (digitizers, function generators, timing devices like TDCs) with performance, generality and scalability as design goals. Among its many features, it offers abstractions for - input and output channels, and channel sets - configurable trigger types - configurable buffer types - interface via sysfs attributes, control and data device nodes - a socket interface (PFZIO) which provides enormous flexibility and power for remote control In this paper, we discuss the design and implementation of ZIO, and describe representative cases of driver development for typical and exotic applications (FMC ADC 100Msps digitizer, FMC TDC timestamp counter, FMC DEL fine delay).

 






Slides MOMIB09 [0.818 MB]
            
 


 




