













ICALEPCS2013 - Table of Session: THCOCA (Timing and Sync)


THCOCA —  Timing and Sync   (10-Oct-13   16:30—17:45)
Chair: K. Furukawa, KEK, Ibaraki, Japan


Paper
Title
Page



THCOCA01
A Design of Sub-Nanosecond Timing and Data Acquisition Endpoint for LHAASO Project
1442


 

W. Pan, Q. Du, G.H. Gong, H. Li, J.M. Li
                       Tsinghua University, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: National Science Foundation of China (No.11005065 and 11275111)
The particle detector array (KM2A) of Large High Altitude Air Shower Observatory (LHAASO) project consists of 5631 electron and 1221 muon detection units over 1.2 square km area. To reconstruct the incident angle of cosmic ray, sub-nanosecond time synchronization must be achieved. The White Rabbit (WR) protocol is applied for its high synchronization precision, automatic delay compensation and intrinsic high band-width data transmit capability. This paper describes the design of a sub-nanosecond timing and data acquisition endpoint for KM2A. It works as a FMC mezzanine mounted on detector specific front-end electronic boards and provides the WR synchronized clock and timestamp. The endpoint supports EtherBone protocol for remote monitor and firmware update. Moreover, a hardware UDP engine is integrated in the FPGA to pack and transmit raw data from detector electronics to readout network. Preliminary test demonstrates a timing precision of 29ps (RMS) and a timing accuracy better than 100ps (RMS).
* The authors are with Key Laboratory of Particle and Radiation Imaging, Department of Engineering Physics, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, 100084  * pwb.thu@gmail.com 

 






Slides THCOCA01 [1.182 MB]
            
 


 



THCOCA02
White Rabbit Status and Prospects
1445


 

J. Serrano, G. Daniluk, M. Lipiński, E. Van der Bij, T. Włostowski
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
D.H. Beck, J. Hoffmann, M. Kreider, C. Prados, S. Rauch, W.W. Terpstra, M. Zweig
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

The White Rabbit (WR) project started off to provide a sequencing and synchronization solution for the needs of CERN and GSI. Since then, many other users have adopted it to solve problems in the domain of distributed hard real-time systems. The paper discusses the current performance of WR hardware, along with present and foreseen applications. It also describes current efforts to standardize WR under IEEE 1588 and recent developments on reliability of timely data distribution. Then it analyzes the role of companies and the commercial Open Hardware paradigm, finishing with an outline of future plans.

 






Slides THCOCA02 [7.955 MB]
            
 


 



THCOCA03
High-Precision Timing of Gated X-Ray Imagers at the National Ignition Facility
1449


 

S.M. Glenn, P.M. Bell, L.R. Benedetti, M.W. Bowers, D.K. Bradley, B.P. Golick, J.P. Holder, D.H. Kalantar, S.F. Khan, N. Simanovskaia
                       LLNL, Livermore, California, USA

 


 

Funding: This work was performed under the auspices of the U.S. Department of Energy by Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory under Contract DE-AC52-07NA27344. #LLNL-ABS-633013
The National Ignition Facility (NIF) at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory is a stadium-sized facility that contains a 192-beam, 1.8-Megajoule, 500-Terawatt, ultraviolet laser system together with a 10-meter diameter target chamber. We describe techniques used to synchronize data acquired by gated x-ray imagers with laser beams at the National Ignition Facility (NIF). Synchronization is achieved by collecting data from multiple beam groups with spatial and temporal separation in a single NIF shot. By optimizing the experimental setup and data analysis, repeatable measurements of 15ps or better have been achieved. This demonstrates that the facility timing system, laser, and target diagnostics, are highly stable over year-long time scales.

 






Slides THCOCA03 [1.182 MB]
            
 


 



THCOCA04
Upgrade of Event Timing System at SuperKEKB
1453


 

H. Kaji, K. Furukawa, M. Iwasaki, E. Kikutani, T. Kobayashi, F. Miyahara, T.T. Nakamura, M. Suetake, M. Tobiyama
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
T. Kudo, S. Kusano
                       Mitsubishi Electric System & Service Co., Ltd, Tsukuba, Japan
T. Okazaki
                       EJIT, Hitachi, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

The timing system of the KEKB accelerator will be upgraded for the SuperKEKB project. One of difficulties at SuperKEKB is the positron injection. It takes more than 40ms since positron pulse must be stored at newly constructed damping ring for at least 40ms. Timings of whole accelerators are precisely synchronized for such a long period. We must manage highly frequent injections even with this situation. Typically beam pulse is delivered to one of rings at every 20ms. Besides, the new system must have a capability of realtime selection of injection RF-bucket - we call it "Bucket Selection" at KEKB - for equalizing bunch current at main rings. Bucket Selection also will be upgraded to synchronize buckets of damping ring and those of main rings. This includes the expansion of maximum delay time up to 2ms and the pulse-by-pulse shift of RF phase at 2nd half of injection Linac. We plan to upgrade the Event Timing System from "2-layer type", which simply connect one generator and one receiver, to "cascade type" for satisfying the new injection requirements. We report the basic design of the new timing system and recent studies about key elements of Event Timing System instruments.

 






Slides THCOCA04 [1.559 MB]
            
 


 



THCOCA05
Laser MegaJoule Timing System
1457


 

J.I. Nicoloso
                       CEA/DAM/DIF, Arpajon, France
J.P.A. Arnoul, J.J. Dupas, P. Raybaut
                       CEA, LE BARP cedex, France

 


 

The French Commissariat à l’Énergie Atomique et aux Énergies alternatives (CEA) is currently building the Laser Megajoule (LMJ). This facility is designed to deliver laser energy to targets for high energy density physics experiments, including fusion experiments. The Integrated Timing and Triggering System (ITTS) is one of the critical LMJ components, in charge of timing distribution for synchronizing the laser beams and triggering the shot data acquisitions. The LMJ ITTS Control System provides a single generic interface to its users at the Supervisory level, built around the key concept of “Synchronized Channels Group”, a set of delay channels triggered simultaneously. Software common components provide basic mechanisms: communication with its users, channel registration User-defined delays are specified with respect to a given reference(target chamber center, quadruplet or beam reference times), these delays are then translated into hardware delays according to different parameters such as electronic cards temperatures(for thermal drift correction) and transit delays. Equipments are mainly off-the-shelf timing equipments delivering trigger signals with jitter down to 15ps rms.

 






Slides THCOCA05 [0.974 MB]
            
 


 




