













ICAP2015 - Table of Session: FRBJ (Motion Integrals and Long-term Simulation/Closing Session)


FRBJ —  Motion Integrals and Long-term Simulation/Closing Session   (16-Oct-15   10:45—12:15)
Chair: S. Russenschuck, CERN, Geneva, Switzerland


Paper
Title
Page



FRBJI1
Space of Motion Integrals in Problems on Self-consistent Charged Particle Distributions
188


 

O.I. Drivotin, D.A. Ovsyannikov
                       St. Petersburg State University, St. Petersburg, Russia

 


 

Funding: St.-Petersburg State University, grant# 9.38.673.2013
A new approach for investigation of self-consistent distributions for charged particle beam in magnetic field is presented. According to this approach, the space of motion integrals is introduced. Specifying charged particles density in the space of motion integrals provides a self-consistent distribution for charged particle beam under some conditions, which are formulated. This approach allows simple graphical representation of various distributions by means of a special diagram. Such approach gives a possibility to construct new solutions of the Vlasov equation for charged particle beam. For example, taking linear combinations of known solutions for uniformly charged beam, one can get new solutions. New solutions can be found also with use of solutions of an integral equation, which includes some degenerate distributions. Many known distributions can be analyzed within the framework of this approach, for example, the 'water bag' distribution. Such approach is valid equally for longitudinally uniform beam, and for axially symmetric beam with varying cross-section radius.

 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ DOI:10.18429/JACoW-ICAP2015-FRBJI1

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



FRBJI2
Methods and Tools for Long-term Simulation in Repetitive Systems
 


 

M. Berz
                       MSU, East Lansing, Michigan, USA

 


 

[tbs]

 






Slides FRBJI2 [2.635 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




