













ICAP2015 - Table of Session: MOBJ (Modern Microscopes, Electron-Ion Collider and eRHIC)


MOBJ —  Modern Microscopes, Electron-Ion Collider and eRHIC   (12-Oct-15   10:30—12:30)
Chair: Y. Zhu, BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA


Paper
Title
Page



MOBJI1
Aberration Corrections and Bunch Compressions for Modern Electron Microscopes
 


 

W. Wan
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA

 


 

The recent success of practically achievable aberration correction in electron microscopes has been a widely recognized milestone for the field, leading to previously unattainable resolution at the sub-Angstrom level. Meanwhile, ultrafast electron microscopy has been growing rapidly and is becoming a major field of research, making effective electron bunch compression a new focus of people's attention. This talk will give an overview of various aberration correction and bunch compression schemes and their relative strengths and weaknesses, as well as simulation tools to accurately model those devices.

 






Slides MOBJI1 [13.895 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



MOBJI3
Computation Requirement Towards the Future Electron Ion Collider, eRHIC
1


 

Y. Hao
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Brookhaven Science Associates, LLC under Contract No. DE-AC02-98CH10886 with the U.S. Department of Energy.
eRHIC is the proposed electron ion collider(EIC) in Brookhaven National Laboratory, an upgrade of RHIC, the only operating collider in US. The demand of high luminosity (1033 to 1034) impels the adoption of an innovative linac-ring collision scheme, i.e. an ERL as the new electron accelerator. The design of eRHIC requires detailed numerical studies on various aspects, which include the start-to-end tracking of multi-pass ERL, special beam-beam study of linac-ring scheme, various beam dynamics issues, spin tracking, novel orbit/optics correction scheme. We will review the eRHIC simulation studies and discuss the challenges of the precise numerical modeling, in order to reduce the design risk.

 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ DOI:10.18429/JACoW-ICAP2015-MOBJI3

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




