













ICAP2015 - Table of Session: TUAJ (Light Sources and Plasma Wakefield Accelerators)


TUAJ —  Light Sources and Plasma Wakefield Accelerators   (13-Oct-15   08:30—10:10)
Chair: M. Borland, ANL, Argonne, Ilinois, USA


Paper
Title
Page



TUAJI1
Advanced Modeling of Accelerators for Next Generation Light Sources
26


 

J. Qiang, C.E. Mitchell, R.D. Ryne, M. Venturini
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA

 


 

Next generation light sources play an important role in scientific discovery for basic energy science. In this paper, we will review the status of the accelerator modeling of next generation light sources and report on the progress that we have made in developing advanced computational tools for high fidelity start-to-end simulation and optimization of these sources. We will present numerical methods and application examples for modeling of a next generation FEL based light source.

 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ DOI:10.18429/JACoW-ICAP2015-TUAJI1

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



TUAJI2
Simulations of Plasma Wakefield Acceleration at FACET and Beyond
 


 

W. An
                       UCLA, Los Angeles, California, USA

 


 

Much progress in experiments, theory, and simulation have been made in plasma based acceleration (PBA). In PBA an intense laser or particle beam creates a plasma wave as it propagates through long plasmas. Electrons or positrons can surf on the wave with acceleration gradients more than 1000 times higher than in traditional accelerators to energies of interest to high energy physics or coherent light sources. Recent experiments at FACET-SLAC have set two new milestones in the PWFA study. One milestone is demonstrating high efficiency and high gradient acceleration of electrons with low energy spread through a 'two-bunch' scheme. The other milestone is demonstrating high energy gain acceleration of positrons with low energy spread through a 'self-loaded' regime. These experiments were supported by full scale, fully three dimensional QuickPIC simulations. We will describe the quasi-static 3D PIC code QuickPIC including recent improvements, how QuickPIC was used to facilitate the recent experimental successes, and how it is being used to simulate key issues related to a future linear collider that are not accessible to current experimental parameters.

 






Slides TUAJI2 [40.586 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




