













IPAC2014 - Table of Session: FRXBA (Invited Oral Presentation, Applications of Accelerators)


FRXBA —  Invited Oral Presentation, Applications of Accelerators   (20-Jun-14   09:30—10:00)
Chair: O.S. Brüning, CERN, Geneva, Switzerland


Paper
Title
Page



FRXBA01
Imaging Systems for 800 MeV Proton Radiography
4057


 

F.E. Merrill, D.B. Barlow, C.J. Espinoza, B.J. Hollander, K. Kwiatkowki, J.D. Lopez, F.G. Mariam, D.J. Morley, C.L. Morris, P. Nedrow, A. Saunders, A. Tainter, D. Tupa, J. Tybo
                       LANL, Los Alamos, New Mexico, USA

 


 

Los Alamos National Laboratory has developed the technique of proton radiography as a flash radiography system for the study of dynamic systems. Historically these studies have focused on measuring fundamental material properties of dynamic materials (equation of state, strength, phase transitions) as well as the physical processes important in predicting the hydrodynamic flow of these materials at high velocity pressure and density (instabilities such as Richtmyer-Meshkov, Rayleigh-Taylor and Kelvin-Helmholtz). Recently these techniques have been extended to new applications which benefit from the unique capabilities of 800 MeV proton radiography. These new applications range from the study of metal alloy solidification to medical imaging applications. In addition to extending the application of this capability performance improvements have been investigated for future implementation. The results of dynamic studies and new applications are presented along with a proposed plan for future radiographic improvements.

 






Slides FRXBA01 [8.667 MB]
        
 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ https://doi.org/10.18429/JACoW-IPAC2014-FRXBA01

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




