













IPAC2013 - Table of Session: THOBB2 (Contributed Oral Presentations (Accelerator Technology))


THOBB2 —  Contributed Oral Presentations (Accelerator Technology)   (16-May-13   11:30—12:30)
Chair: A. Hutton, JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA


Paper
Title
Page



THOBB201
Pathway to a Post Processing Increase in Q0 of SRF Cavities
3129


 

O. Kugeler, J. Knobloch, J.M. Vogt
                       HZB, Berlin, Germany
S. Aull
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

A significant improvement of Q0 to values larger than 3.2x1010 at 1.8K has been repeatedly achieved in an SRF cavity by thermal cycling, i.e. heating the cavity briefly above transition temperature and subsequent cooling. Conceivable explanations for this effect reach from effectivity deviations of the magnetic shielding to thermal currents to hydrogen diffusion. Experimental We have experimentally verified some of these explanations, leaving a direct impact of cooling dynamics on frozen flux as the most plausible one. The pathway to this finding is being presented and the application to SRF systems is elicited.

 






Slides THOBB201 [1.184 MB]
            
 


 



THOBB202
Temperature Waves in SRF Research
 


 

A. Ganshin, D.L. Hartill, G.H. Hoffstaetter, X. Mi, E.N. Smith, N.R.A. Valles
                       CLASSE, Ithaca, New York, USA

 


 

Previously Cornell University developed Oscillating Superleak Transducers (OST) to locate quench spots on superconducting cavities in superfluid helium. This work builds upon this research and presents a technique to automatically visualize quench locations from OST data [1]. This system is now fully automated. The current system consists of between 8 and 16 OSTs, a high gain low noise preamplifier, and a data acquisition card that can log up to 16 simultaneously recorded inputs. The developed software allows computing quench locations on various cavity geometries, adjustment of the location of each OST and a choice between several quench finding algorithms. Observed results are in excellent agreement with optical inspection and temperature map data.
http://newsline.linearcollider.org/2011/04/21/the-sound-of-accelerator-cavities

 






Slides THOBB202 [3.166 MB]
            
 


 



THOBB203
Study on Fabrication of Superconducting RF 9-cell Cavity for ILC at KEK
3132


 

T. Saeki, Y. Ajima, K. Enami, H. Hayano, H. Inoue, E. Kako, S. Kato, S. Koike, T. Kubo, S. Noguchi, M. Satoh, M. Sawabe, T. Shishido, A. Terashima, N. Toge, K. Ueno, K. Umemori, K. Watanabe, Y. Watanabe, S. Yamaguchi, A. Yamamoto, Y. Yamamoto, M. Yamanaka, K. Yokoya
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
Y. Iwashita
                       Kyoto ICR, Uji, Kyoto, Japan
N. Kawabata, H. Nakamura, K. Nohara, M. Shinohara
                       SPS, Funabashi-shi, Japan
F. Yasuda
                       The University of Tokyo, Institute of Physics, Tokyo, Japan

 


 

We constructed a new facility for the fabrication of superconducting RF cavity at KEK from 2009 to 2011. In the facility, we have installed a deep-drawing machine, a half-cell trimming machine, an electron-beam welding machine, and a chemical etching room in one place. We started the study on the fabrication of 9-cell cavity for International Linear Collier (ILC) from 2009 using this facility. The study is focusing on the cost reduction with keeping high performance of cavity, and the goal is the establishment of mass-production procedure for ILC. This article reports the current status of the studies in CFF.

 






Slides THOBB203 [3.983 MB]
            
 


 




