













IPAC2013 - Table of Session: THPWO (Poster Session)


THPWO —  Poster Session   (16-May-13   16:00—18:00)



Paper
Title
Page



THPWO001
Assembling, Testing and Installing the SPIRAL2 Superconducting Linac
3752


 

P.-E. Bernaudin, R. Ferdinand
                       GANIL, Caen, France
P. Bosland
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France
Y. Gomez Martinez
                       LPSC, Grenoble, France
G. Olry
                       IPN, Orsay, France

 


 

Assembly and tests of the SPIRAL2 superconducting linac's components are now proceeding smoothly. Cryomodules are being processed in CEA Saclay and IPN Orsay, inter-cryomodules "warm" sections in GANIL. While installation of the accelerators components is going on in the new SPIRAL2 building in Caen, installation of the cryomodules will begin during the last quarter of 2013. The latest results of the cryomodules tests as well as the installation strategy are depicted in this paper.

 


 



THPWO002
Progress of Construction and Installation of the SPIRAL2 Accelerator
3755


 

R. Ferdinand, P. Bertrand, X. Hulin, M. Jacquemet, E. Petit
                       GANIL, Caen, France

 


 

Officially approved in May 2005, the SPIRAL2 project was launched in July 2005 at GANIL, with the active participation of French laboratories (CEA, CNRS) and international partners. This new facility is composed of a linear accelerator producing deuteron, proton and heavy ion beams in a wide range of energies and intensities, with two dedicated experimental areas in the fields of Neutron for Science (NFS) and very heavy and super heavy element production (S3). In a second step, the facility will also produce Rare elements serving a low energy RIB experimental hall, or post-accelerated by means of the existing cyclotron CIME. This paper presents the performances of the main accelerator components, and the installation process into the SPIRAL2 building.

 


 



THPWO003
Final Design of the IFMIF Injector at CEA/Saclay
3758


 

R. Gobin, D. Bogard, N. Chauvin, O. Delferrière, P. Girardot, F. Harrault, J.L. Jannin, D. Loiseau, C. Marolles, P. Mattei, A. Roger, F. Senée, O. Tuske
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France
H. Shidara
                       IFMIF/EVEDA, Rokkasho, Japan

 


 

The IFMIF accelerator dedicated to high neutron flux production for material studies is now entering in a new phase. For this irradiation tool, IRFU institute from CEA/Saclay is in charge of the design, construction and characterization of the Injector. The high intensity deuteron beam is produced by an ECR source located on a 100 kV platform. The 2 m long LEBT, based on 2 solenoids, is ended by a cone installed at the entrance of the RFQ. Specific diagnostics (cameras, Allison type emittance scanner, fiberscope) have been installed for the beam characterization. During the last weeks, after Injector conditioning, more than 100 mA of deuteron beams have been characterized after the RFQ entrance cone in pulsed and continuous mode*. The shipment of the Injector towards the Rokkasho site in Japan (where it will be reinstalled) is foreseen at the beginning of 2013. This paper will focus on the final design used during the beam characterization experiments at Saclay.
* N. Chauvin et al. this conference

 


 



THPWO004
RF Tuning of the LINAC4 RFQ
3761


 

O. Piquet, Y. Le Noa, J. Novo
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France
M. Desmons, A. France
                       CEA/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
C. Rossi
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The construction of Linac4, the new 160 MeV CERN H− injector, has started with the goal of improving the LHC injection chain with a new higher energy linac. The low energy front end of Linac4 is based on a 352 MHz, 3-m long Radiofrequency Quadrupole (RFQ) which accelerates the 70 mA, 45 keV H− beam from the ion source to the energy of 3 MeV. The RFQ, made of three modules, one meter each, is of the four-vane type and it has been designed in collaboration between CERN and CEA. Construction has started in 2009 and all the steps of machining and assembly have been done at CERN. The RFQ is equipped with 35 fixed tuners and one waveguide RF port located in the second module. This paper describes the procedure used to tune the accelerating field and the power coupler of the LINAC4 RFQ in order to achieve the nominal voltage profile within ±1% accuracy.

 


 



THPWO005
Commissioning of the Spiral2 Deuteron Injector
3764


 

D. Uriot, O. Tuske
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France
J.-L. Biarrotte
                       IPN, Orsay, France

 


 

The SPIRAL-2 superconducting linac driver, which aims at delivering 5 mA, 40 MeV deuterons and up to 1 mA, 14.5 A.MeV q/A=1/3 heavy ions, has now entered its construction phase in GANIL (Caen, France). The linac is composed of two injectors feeding one single RFQ, followed by a superconducting section based on 88 MHz independently-phased quarter-wave cavities with room temperature focusing elements. The protons/deuteron injector have been fully built and commissioned at CEA Saclay in 2012, before moving and final installation at GANIL in 2013. Beam emittances have been measured at different positions of the LEBT and especially at the RFQ injection point. The space-charge beam compensation has been also carefully studied. This paper describes all the results obtained during this commissioning.

 


 



THPWO006
Beam Commissioning of the Linear IFMIF Prototype Accelerator Injector: Measurements and Simulations
3767


 

N. Chauvin, S. Chel, O. Delferrière, R. Gobin, P.A.P. Nghiem, F. Senée, M. Valette
                       CEA/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
A. Mosnier
                       Fusion for Energy, Garching, Germany
Y. Okumura
                       JAEA, Rokkasho, Japan
H. Shidara
                       IFMIF/EVEDA, Rokkasho, Japan
D. Uriot
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France

 


 

The EVEDA (Engineering Validation and Engineering Design Activities) phase of the IFMIF (International Fusion Materials Irradiation Facility) project consists in building, testing and operating, in Japan, a 125 mA/9 MeV deuteron accelerator, called LIPAc, which has been developed in Europe. The 140 mA cw D+ beam that has to be delivered by the LIPAc injector is produced by a 2.45 GHz ECR ion source based on the SILHI design. The low energy beam transfer line (LEBT) relies on a dual solenoid focusing system to transport the beam and to match it into the RFQ*. The beam line is equipped by several diagnostics: intensity measurement, emittance measurement unit, profilers and beam proportion analysis. During the LIPAc injector beam commissioning performed in CEA-Saclay, the deuteron beam intensity transported at the end of the LEBT reached an unprecedented value of 140 mA at 100 keV. In this paper, the results obtained during the commissioning are presented. In particular, beam emittance measurements as a function of duty cycle, extracted current from the ion source and solenoid tunings are exposed. The experimental results are discussed and compared to beam dynamics simulations.
* R. Gobin et al., this conference

 


 



THPWO007
Advanced Superconducting CW Heavy Ion Linac R&D
3770


 

W.A. Barth, S. Mickat, A. Orzhekhovskaya
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
M. Amberg, K. Aulenbacher, V. Gettmann, S. Jacke
                       HIM, Mainz, Germany
F.D. Dziuba, H. Podlech, U. Ratzinger
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany

 


 

An advanced upgrade program has to be realized in the next years, such that enhanced primary beam intensities are available. For this a new sc 28 GHz full performance ECR ion source has to be established. Via a new low energy beam line an already installed new RFQ and an IH-DTL will provide for cw-heavy ion beams with high average beam intensity. It is foreseen to build a new cw-heavy ion-linac behind this high charge state injector. In preparation an advanced R&D program is defined: The first linac section comprising a sc CH-cavity embedded by two sc solenoids (financed by HIM and partly by HGF-ARD-initiative) as a demonstrator will be tested in 2014). After successfull testing an advanced cryomodule comprising up to 4 rf cavities is foreseen. First layout scenarios of this advanced test bench will be presented.

 


 



THPWO008
Status of the 70 MeV FAIR Proton Injector
3773


 

G. Clemente, W.A. Barth, R. Bereznov, P. Forck, L. Groening, R. Hollinger, M. Kaiser, A. Krämer, F. Maimone, C. Mühle, J. Pfister, G. Schreiber, J. Trüller, W. Vinzenz, C. Will
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
R. M. Brodhage, B. Koubek, H. Podlech, U. Ratzinger, A. Schempp, R. Tiede
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany
N. Chauvin, O. Delferrière
                       CEA/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
B. Launé, J. Lesrel
                       IPN, Orsay, France
C.S. Simon, O. Tuske
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France

 


 

Funding: BMBF
The FAIR project requires a dedicated proton injector for the creation of high intensity secondary antiproton beams. This machine will be the first high intensity linear accelerator based on CH-DTL. The status of the project, with particular emphasis on the construction of the first RF prototype is presented.

 


 



THPWO009
Beam Dynamics Error and Loss Investigation of the FAIR Proton Injector
3776


 

G. Clemente, W.A. Barth, P. Forck, L. Groening, R. Hollinger, M. Kaiser, J. Pfister, W. Vinzenz, S.G. Yaramyshev, C. Zhang
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
R. M. Brodhage, B. Koubek, H. Podlech, U. Ratzinger, A. Schempp, R. Tiede
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany
N. Chauvin, C.S. Simon, O. Tuske
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France
O. Delferrière
                       CEA/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
B. Launé, J. Lesrel
                       IPN, Orsay, France

 


 

The FAIR Proton Linac is a 70mA, 70 MeV. 325 MHz linear accelerator based on CH cavities. The focusing scheme is provided by an asynchronous KONUS lattice period. Random misalignment and rotation errors of the quadrupoles, together with phase and RF settings of the power source plays a major role in beam losses. Those effects are investigated and the beam dynamics results, including several source of errors, are presented and discussed.

 


 



THPWO010
Charge Stripping Tests of High Current Uranium Ion Beams with Methane and Hydrogen Gas Strippers and Carbon Foils at the GSI UNILAC
3779


 

B. Schlitt, W.A. Barth, G. Clemente, L. Groening, M. Kaiser, B. Lommel, M.T. Maier, S. Mickat, J. Steiner, H. Vormann
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

At the GSI UNILAC, a nitrogen gas stripper is routinely used for stripping of heavy ion beams at 1.4 MeV/u. Different approaches to optimize the stripping efficiency as well as different options to increase the ion charge states for delivery to SIS18 are being investigated. The existing gas stripper was operated with methane and hydrogen gas for stripping of high current uranium ion beams. The results as well as the limitations of these tests will be presented and will be compared to standard nitrogen operation of the gas stripper. In addition, newest results using differently prepared carbon stripping foils for the same ion beams will be reported.

 


 



THPWO011
Status of the SIS100 Heavy Ion Synchrotron Project at FAIR
3782


 

P.J. Spiller, U. Blell, O. Boine-Frankenheim, L.H.J. Bozyk, E.S. Fischer, E. Floch, F. Hagenbuck, F. Hehenberger, M. Kauschke, O.K. Kester, A. Klaus, H. Klingbeil, H.G. König, P. Kowina, J.P. Meier, P. Moritz, C. Mühle, C. Omet, D. Ondreka, N. Pyka, H. Ramakers, P. Schnizer, J. Stadlmann, K. Sugita, D. Theuerkauf, B. Walasek-Höhne, St. Wilfert
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

SIS100 is a unique superconducting heavy ion synchrotron, optimized for the acceleration of intense beams of intermediate charge state heavy ions. The operation with such beams has required new synchrotron design features and new technical concepts aiming for minimized ionization beam loss and vacuum dynamics. SIS100 is a superconducting synchrotron because of the required vacuum conditions and pumping power to achieve stable XHV conditions at high intensity operation. The project and procurement status will be presented.

 


 



THPWO012
High Gradient Room Temperature Cavity Development for 10 – 100 AMeV Beams
3785


 

A. Almomani, U. Ratzinger
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany

 


 

Funding: BMBF, 05P12RFRB9
These linac activities are aimed to increase the accelerating field gradient. In IAP – Frankfurt, a CH – design was proposed to post-accelerate a proton bunch, generated by an intense laser, from 10 – 15.2 MeV. The accelerating field gradient is expected to reach > 10 MV/m. Within a funded project, this cavity will be further developed towards a high gradient cavity. The availability of the GSI 3 MW klystron test stand will be very important for these investigations. The results will influence the rebuilt of the Unilac - Alvarez section, where the existing linac tunnel with 1 m thick concrete walls should house a powerful pulsed heavy ion linac, optimized for achieving finally the beam intensities specified for the GSI-FAIR project. The status of the cavity design will be presented.

 


 



THPWO014
Design Study of a High Frequency Proton Ladder RFQ
3788


 

R. M. Brodhage, A. Almomani, U. Ratzinger
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany

 


 

For the research program with cooled antiprotons at FAIR a dedicated 70 MeV, 70 mA proton injector is required. In the low energy section, between the Ion Source and the main linac an RFQ has to be designed. Accelerating protons from 95 keV to 3.0 MeV the RFQ will oscillate at 325 MHz. This particular high frequency for an RFQ creates difficulties which are challenging in developing this cavity. In order to define a satisfactory geometrical configuration for this resonator, both from the RF and the mechanical point of view, different designs have been examined and compared. Very promising results have been reached with an ladder type RFQ, especially concerning the dipole component of the accelerating fields, which is almost not noticeable. This paper will show 3D simulations of the general layout and a whole cavity demonstrating the power of a ladder type RFQ. It will outline a possible layout for the RFQ within the new FAIR proton injector.

 


 



THPWO015
First Coupled CH Power Cavity for the FAIR Proton Injector
3791


 

R. M. Brodhage, U. Ratzinger
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany
G. Clemente, W. Vinzenz
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

For the research program with cooled antiprotons at FAIR a dedicated 70 MeV, 70 mA proton injector is required. The main acceleration of this room temperature linac will be provided by six CH cavities operated at 325 MHz. Each cavity will be powered by a 2.5 MW Klystron. For the second acceleration unit from 11.5 MeV to 24.2 MeV a 1:2 scaled model has been built. Low level RF measurements have been performed to determine the main parameters and to prove the concept of coupled CH cavities. In Summer 2012, the assembly and tuning of the first power prototype was finished. Until then, the cavity was tested with a preliminary aluminum drift tube structure, which was used for precise frequency and field tuning. Before Spring 2013 the final drift tube structure will be welded inside the main tanks and the preparation for copper plating will take place. This paper will report on the main tuning and commissioning steps towards that novel type of DTL and it will show the latest results measured on a fully operational CH proton cavity.

 


 



THPWO016
Superconducting CH Cavities for Heavy Ion Acceleration
3794


 

F.D. Dziuba, M. Amberg, M. Busch, H. Podlech, U. Ratzinger
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany
M. Amberg, K. Aulenbacher, W.A. Barth, S. Mickat
                       HIM, Mainz, Germany
K. Aulenbacher
                       IKP, Mainz, Germany
W.A. Barth, S. Mickat
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

Funding: Work supported by HIM, GSI and BMBF Contr. No. 06FY7102
To demonstrate the operation ability of superconducting (sc) Crossbar-H-mode (CH) cavity technology a 217 MHz structure of this type is under development at the Institute for Applied Physics (IAP) of Frankfurt University. The cavity has 15 accelerating cells and a design beta of 0.059. It will be equipped with all necessary auxiliaries like a 10 kW power coupler and a tuning system. Currently, the cavity is under construction. Furthermore, this cavity will serve as demonstrator for a sc continuous wave (cw) LINAC at GSI. The proposed cw LINAC is highly requested to fulfil the requirements of nuclear chemistry and especially for a competitive production of new Super Heavy Elements (SHE) in the future. A full performance test by injecting and accelerating a beam from the GSI High Charge Injector (HLI) is planned in 2014. The current status of the sc CH cavity and the demonstrator project is presented.

 


 



THPWO017
A Coupled RFQ-IH Cavity for the Neutron Source FRANZ
3797


 

M. Heilmann, C. Claessens, O. Meusel, D. Mäder, U. Ratzinger, A. Schempp, M. Schwarz
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany

 


 

The Frankfurt neutron Source at the Stern-Gerlach-Zentrum (FRANZ) delivers neutrons in the energy range from 1 to 300 keV at high intensities. The neutrons are produced using the the 7Li(p,n)7Be reaction with 2 MeV protons. The linac accelerator cavities consists of a 4-rod-RFQ coupled with an 8 gap interdigital H-type drift tube section with a total cavity length of 2.3 m. It accelerates the 120 keV beam to 2.03 MeV at a frequency of 175 MHz. The combined cavity will be powered by one RF amplifier to reduce investment and operation costs. The inductive power coupler will be located at the RFQ part. The coupling into the IH – section is provided by direct inductive coupling within the cavity. The coupled RFQ-IH combination is investigated with CST-MWS-simulations and by an RF model. The linac combination has to match the resonance frequency, flatness along the RFQ and the voltage ratio between both cavity sections. Beam operation will be cw (a few mA) and pulsed 250 kHz, 50 ns (up to 50 mA and beyond). The thermal cavity losses are about 200 kW and the cooling is the challenging topic.

 


 



THPWO018
Power Tests of the 325 MHz 4-ROD  RFQ Prototype
3800


 

B. Koubek, H. Podlech, A. Schempp, J.S. Schmidt
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany

 


 

For the FAIR project of GSI as part of the proton linac a 325 MHz RFQ with an output energy of 3 MeV is planned. Simulations that have lead to a prototype of a 4-Rod Radio Frequency Quadrupole (RFQ) have been done. The RF parameters have been verified with the prototype. Power tests of this 6 stem copper RFQ should now verify parameters like shunt impedance, electrode voltage and give answers of how much power the structure can sustain.

 


 



THPWO020
Simulations on the Boundary Fields of 4-rod RFQ Electrodes
3803


 

J.S. Schmidt, B. Koubek, A. Schempp
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany

 


 

If the RF design of a 4-rod Radio Frequency Quadrupole (RFQ) is not performed carefully with respect to the boundary fields of its electrodes, it can produce errors compared to beam dynamic simulations. An additional field component can be induced on the beam axis, which influences the properties of the particle beam, like energy per nucleon for example, dramatically. Therefore, the influences of different geometric parameters of 4-rod RFQs on these fields have been studied in detail. The results of these simulations will be presented in this paper.

 


 



THPWO021
Gabor Lens Performance Studies at the GSI High Current Test Injector
3806


 

K. Schulte, M. Droba, O. Meusel, U. Ratzinger
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany
A. Adonin, R. Berezov, R. Hollinger, J. Pfister
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

At the Institute for Applied Physics (IAP) the application of Gabor space charge lenses as a focusing device for low energy ion beams has already been studied for several years. Inside Gabor lenses electrons are confined by external fields. In case of a homogeneously distributed electron cloud the resulting linear electric space charge field enables the focusing of high intensity heavy ion beams without aberrations. Therefore, the Gabor lens is a promising approach for mass-independent focusing and possible space charge compensation of ion beams. In mid-2012 the performance of a prototype lens has successfully been tested at the GSI High Current Test Injector (HOSTI). GSI and IAP are currently investigating the possible application of such a device for the continuous operation at the High Current Injector (HSI) for FAIR. This contribution will present the results of beam transport experiments at HOSTI as well as the determination of related plasma properties.

 


 



THPWO022
Beam Dynamics Design, Simulation and Benchmarking for the C-ADS Injector-II RFQ
3809


 

C. Zhang
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
C. Xiao
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany

 


 

The planned Chinese Accelerator Driven System (C-ADS) will use two 10 MeV, up to 10 mA, and CW (Continuous Wave) proton linacs in parallel as injectors. Two versions of the injectors with different resonant frequencies as well as different cavity configurations are under development. This paper will focus on the beam dynamics design, simulation and benchmarking performed for the 162.5 MHz, 2.1 MeV Injector-II RFQ (Radio-Frequency Quadrupole).

 


 



THPWO023
The New RFQ as RIB Injector of the ALPI Linac
3812


 

M. Comunian, A. Palmieri, A. Pisent, C. Roncolato
                       INFN/LNL, Legnaro (PD), Italy

 


 

At the Legnaro National Laboratories it is operating a Super Conducting linac for nuclear studies named ALPI. A new project SPES is under study to provide neutron-rich rare nuclear beams (RIB) of final energies in the order of 10 MeV/A for nuclei in the A= 9-160 mass region. The radioactive ions will be produced with the ISOL technique using the proton induced fission on a Direct Target of UCx and subsequently reaccelerated using a new injector for the ALPI accelerator complex. In this paper the new RFQ injector and the transport line to ALPI will be describe.

 


 



THPWO024
PROGRESS ON DTL DESIGN FOR ESS
3815


 

M. Comunian, F. Grespan, A. Pisent, C. Roncolato
                       INFN/LNL, Legnaro (PD), Italy
R. De Prisco
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden
P. Mereu
                       INFN-Torino, Torino, Italy

 


 

In the European Spallation Source (ESS) accelerator, the Drift Tube Linac (DTL) will accelerate a proton beam of 50 mA pulse peak current from 3 to ~80 MeV. In this paper the engineering design of DTL tanks with the beam dynamics errors studies and the RF design are shown.

 


 



THPWO027
Lattice and Error Studies for J-PARC Linac Upgrade to 50mA/400MeV
3818


 

Y. Liu
                       KEK/JAEA, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan
M. Ikegami
                       J-PARC, KEK & JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan

 


 

Equi-partitioning (EP) setting is applied as base-line design for the J-PARC linac upgrade from present 15mA/181MeVto 50mA/400MeV H− beam. We also studied the possibility of mitigating the intra-beam stripping (IBSt) with constant-envelop setting for the frequency jump from 324MHz to the 972MHz ACS section. Since the constant-envelop setting here for the frequency jump is away from equi-partitioning and close to the resonances kz=3kx, kz=2kx and so on, considerable emittance exchange and mismatch were found in the simulation. It is natural to continue the work to explore the parameter space around the above two typical settings. Three key points are to be checked. The first is the tradeoff between the envelopes big enough to suppress the IBSt and tunes not to be too depressed to the space charge region. The second point is the sensitivity of these lattices vs. errors. The third is about the criterion of mismatch in the presence of emittance exchange. When emittance exchange is serious the mismatch can be unavoidable. So it is crucial to ensure the settings are in the safe region free from un-controlled mismatch.

 


 



THPWO028
Commissioning Plan for Energy Upgrade of J-PARC Linac
3821


 

M. Ikegami, Z. Fang, K. Futatsukawa, T. Miyao
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
Y. Liu
                       KEK/JAEA, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan
T. Maruta
                       J-PARC, KEK & JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan
A. Miura, J. Tamura
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-mura, Japan

 


 

In J-PARC linac, we plan to have an energy and intensity upgrade in summer 2013. The upgrade involves replacement of the ion source and RFQ (Radio Frequency Quadrupole linac), and addition of ACS (Annular Coupled Structure linac) cavities after existing SDTL (Separate Drift Tube Linac) section. With this upgrade, the design peak current will be increased from the present 30 mA to 50 mA, and the energy from 181 MeV to 400 MeV. This significant upgrade will be followed by a full-scale beam commissioning campaign. In this paper, we present the plan for the commissioning with outlining the assumed commissioning schemes.

 


 



THPWO029
Beam Loss Monitoring and Mitigation at J-PARC DTL
3824


 

T. Maruta
                       J-PARC, KEK & JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan
K. Futatsukawa, M. Ikegami, T. Miyao
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
T. Ito, A. Miura
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-mura, Japan

 


 

Close radiation survey at the cavity outer surface has indicated a significant beam loss in the first tank of J-PARC DTL (Drift Tube Linac) which has been localized at a certain drift tube. It has motivated us to measure the beam loss at the DTL, and we have installed beam loss monitors of scintillator type at the cavity surface. It is challenging to monitor the beam loss due to low energy of lost particles and shielding by the thick cavity wall. In this paper, we report the results of beam loss measurement and beam loss mitigation tuning using the beam loss monitors.

 


 



THPWO030
Recent Progress in Beam Commissioning of J-PARC Linac
3827


 

M. Ikegami, Z. Fang, K. Futatsukawa, T. Miyao
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
Y. Liu
                       KEK/JAEA, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan
T. Maruta
                       J-PARC, KEK & JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan
A. Miura, J. Tamura
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-mura, Japan

 


 

The beam operation of J-PARC linac has been restored from the earthquake, and started to pursue higher beam power operation. We have also started to prepare for coming energy and intensity upgrade. In this paper, we review recent progress in beam commissioning of J-PARC linac with emphasis on the beam loss mitigation and preparation for the upgrade.

 


 



THPWO031
Status of J-PARC Accelerators
3830


 

K. Hasegawa, M. Kinsho, H. Oguri
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-Mura, Naka-Gun, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan
T. Koseki
                       J-PARC, KEK & JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan

 


 

After nine-months of beam shutdown by the Great Earthquake in March 2011, the J-PARC facility resumed beam operation. In December 2011, operations were carried out at low duty such as single-shots or 1 to 2.5 Hz for beam tuning. At the beginning of January 2012, we started beam tuning at the full repetition rate of 25 Hz at the linac and the 3 GeV Rapid Cycling Synchrotron (RCS). After the tuning, user programs of the Materials and Life Science Experiment Facility (MLF), the Neutrino facility and the Hadron facility started. The beam power was increased from 100 to 300 kW to the MLF users, from 3.3 kW to 6 kW to the Hadron users, and from 140 to 200 kW to the Neutrino users. The beam availability went lower to 73 % in JFY 2011 due to the trouble of the linac klystron power supply in March, but it has got back to 90-94 % as of November in JFY2012. We have also much upgrade work during the shutdown period or in parallel to the operation. We’ve demonstrated new record power beyond 500kW from the RCS. The status and progress of the J-PARC accelerators are presented.

 


 



THPWO032
Progress of Injection Energy Upgrade Project for J-PARC RCS
3833


 

N. Hayashi, H. Harada, K. Horino, H. Hotchi, J. Kamiya, M. Kinsho, P.K. Saha, Y. Shobuda, T. Takayanagi, N. Tani, T. Togashi, T. Ueno, M. Watanabe, Y. Watanabe, K. Yamamoto, M. Yamamoto, Y. Yamazaki, M. Yoshimoto
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-Mura, Naka-Gun, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan
Y. Irie
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
T. Toyama
                       J-PARC, KEK & JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan

 


 

The injection energy of the J-PARC RCS will be upgraded in 2013. New power supplies for the shift bump magnet system will be installed. Some of other systems, upgrade of the painting bump power supplies and pulse steering systems, are already installed and tested or used for the nominal operation. The paper reports the progress of injection energy upgrade project.

 


 



THPWO033
High Intensity Beam Trial of up to 540 kW in J-PARC RCS
3836


 

H. Hotchi, H. Harada, N. Hayashi, M. Kinsho, P.K. Saha, Y. Shobuda, F. Tamura, K. Yamamoto, M. Yamamoto, M. Yoshimoto
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-Mura, Naka-Gun, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan
Y. Irie
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
S. Kato
                       Tohoku University, Graduate School of Science, Sendai, Japan

 


 

Recently we have performed a high intensity beam trial of up to 540 kW. In this paper, beam intensity dependece and injection painting parameter dependence of beam loss, observed in this beam experiment, will be discussed with the corresponding numerical simulation results.

 


 



THPWO034
Fabrication of the RFQ III for the J-PARC Linac Current Upgrade
3839


 

T. Morishita, Y. Kondo, H. Oguri
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-Mura, Naka-Gun, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan
K. Hasegawa
                       JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan
H. Kawamata, F. Naito, T. Sugimura
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

The J-PARC accelerator comprises an injector linac, a 3-GeV Rapid-Cycling Synchrotron and a 50-GeV Main Ring. The J-PARC linac has been operating for users with the beam energy of 181 MeV. The energy (to 400MeV) and current (to 50mA) upgrade of the linac is scheduled for 1MW operation at RCS. For the current upgrade, the RFQ III, which is designed for 50mA beam acceleration, has been fabricated. The engineering design and the fabrication technologies are basically the same as the RFQ II in J-PARC linac. Some engineering methods are improved for the dimension accuracy, the reliability, and the period of fabrication. In the RFQ II fabrication, there was a leakage trouble at the electron-beam-welding spot by the thermal stress at the brazing only occasionally. Then, we changed to all-brazing design. Also, there was a vane deformation after the final machining. This was corrected by changing the method of fixation at the brazing. As a result, a dimension error was in a tolerable range. Currently, the fabrication is in a final process and the high-power test is scheduled at the second quarter of 2012.

 


 



THPWO035
Numerical Study on the Effect of Magnetic Shield of a Bunch Shape Monitor in J-PARC Linac
3842


 

J. Tamura, H. Ao, A. Miura, N. Ouchi
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-mura, Japan
M. Ikegami
                       J-PARC, KEK & JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan
T. Maruta
                       KEK/JAEA, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan
T. Miyao, K. Takata
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

In the annual shutdown period of 2012, three bunch shape monitors (BSMs) have been installed to the J-PARC linac beam transport line at the downstream of the 181-MeV separated DTL. To measure the longitudinal micro-bunch shape, the BSM detects the electrons produced by the accelerated protons hitting the negatively energized wire. Due to the space limitation, the each BSM is installed at the center of the quadrupole doublet, where the fringe field from the quadrupole magnets exists. It has been observed that the fringe field significantly affects the orbit of the emitted electrons. To shield the magnetic field, iron plates have been inserted to the spaces between the quadrupole magnets and BSM. This causes changes of the total magnetic flux density (GL) and the amount of quadrupole component of the fringe field. In this paper, numerical estimation of the shield effect is presented.

 


 



THPWO036
Annular-Ring Coupled Structure Linac for the J-PARC Linac Energy Upgrade
3845


 

H. Ao, H. Asano, Y. Nemoto, N. Ouchi, J. Tamura
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-mura, Japan
F. Naito, K. Takata
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

The linac of Japan Proton Accelerator Research Complex (J-PARC) is the injector to the 3-GeV rapid cycle synchrotron. In order to increase the beam power of the synchrotron, the task of the 400-MeV energy upgrade of the linac started from March 2009. Following the 191-MeV Separated-type DTL, the 25 modules of the Annular-ring Coupled Structure (ACS) linac will be added from August 2013. The operating frequency and the accelerating field E0 of the ACS are 972 MHz and 4.2 MV/m, respectively. The cavity fabrication of the ACS has been almost finished, and then the completed cavities are stored in the J-PARC site. Currently, pumps and vacuum components are being installed on the cavities for the test of vacuum condition. For the pulsed beam of J-PARC, the vacuum pressure have to be less than 10-6 Pa in order not to exceed 0.1 W/m beam loss. In this paper, we present the R&D results to reduce the vacuum pressure using the stored ACS cavity and the current status of the energy upgrade.

 


 



THPWO037
Status and Progress of the J-PARC 3 GeV RCS
3848


 

M. Kinsho
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-mura, Japan

 


 

The J-PARC rapid cycling synchrotron (RCS) has been delivered 300kW beam to both the MLF and the MR with high reliability and small beam loss for user operation. To realize simultaneously two kinds of beam shape which are required from the MLF and the MR, two pulse dipole magnets for injection painting were installed in the beam transport line from the Linac to the RCS. It was successful to make two kinds of beam shape with injection painting bump magnets and these added pulse dipole magnets. This injection painting system is used for user operation and works well for reduction of beam losses. Not only user operation but also high power beam test was performed, and beam power of 524kW for 35 second was achieved with low beam loss in the RCS. Almost all beam loss was localized at the ring collimator and the loss rate was about 2% and this was acceptable because design value of the beam loss was 3%. This power corresponds to 1.8MW for 400MeV injection in terms of the Lasslett tune shift. In this high-intensity trial, significant progress toward design output beam power of 1 MW was demonstrated. The status and progress of the RCS in J-PARC are presented.

 


 



THPWO038
Electron Stripping of High-intensity 238U Ion Beam with Recirculating He Gas
3851


 

H. Imao
                       RIKEN Nishina Center for Accelerator-Based Science, Wako, Saitama, Japan
T. Dantsuka, M. Fujimaki, N. Fukunishi, H. Hasebe, O. Kamigaito, M. Kase, H. Kuboki, K. Kumagai, T. Maie, H. Okuno, T. Watanabe, Y. Watanabe, K. Yamada, Y. Yano
                       RIKEN Nishina Center, Wako, Japan

 


 

Next-generation in-flight RI beam facilities such as RIBF and FRIB pursue powerful and energetic 238U ion beams to produce thousands of new isotopes. For their efficient acceleration, a durable electron stripper in the intermediate energy region around 10-20 MeV/u is indispensable. However, there is no available stripper for the U beams with the intensity of more than 1 puA so far because of the lifetime problem of thin solid strippers caused by high energy loss. 　In the present study, a novel electron stripping system employing high-flow rate He gas circulation (200 L/min) has been developed. He gas with the thickness of 0.6 mg/cm2 is confined and separated from beamline vacuum using five-stage differentially-pumped sections. To avoid huge gas consumption, a clean gas recycling is achieved with multi-stage mechanical booster pump array. The recycling rate of He gas was achieved as more than 99%. The system was successfully operated in user runs with U35+ beams more than 1 puA injected at 10.8 MeV/u for the first time. U64+ beams were stably delivered to subsequent accelerators with the stripping efficiency of 23% without any deterioration of the system.

 


 



THPWO040
Progress of Injector-1 and Main Linac of Chinese ADS Proton Accelerator
3854


 

Y.L. Chi, J. Cao, J.P. Dai, H. Dong, L. Dong, T.M. Huang, X. Jing, S.P. Li, Z. Li, Z.Q. Li, Z.C. Liu, F. Long, Z. Ma, H.F. Ouyang, W.M. Pan, Q.L. Peng, P. Su, Y.F. Sui, J.Y. Tang, J.L. Wang, Q.B. Wang, Q. Ye, Z.S. Zhou
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

China ADS study program was Supported by the "Strategic Priority Research Program " of the Chinese Academy of Sciences at 2011, which aims to design and build an ADS demonstration facility with the capability of more than 1000 MW thermal power in about twenty years. The driver Linac is defined to be1.5 GeV in energy, 10mA in current and in CW operation mode. To meet the extremely high reliability and availability of ADS, the Linac is designed with much installed margin and fault tolerance. ADS accelerator is composed of two parallel 10MeV injectors and a main Linac. The superconducting acceleration structures are employed except the RFQs. This paper will present design of the China ADS accelerator and related key technology developments.

 


 



THPWO041
The development of a high power input coupler for China ADS injector I RFQ
3857


 

T.M. Huang, X. Chen, R. Guo, H.Y. Lin, Q. Ma, F. Meng, H.F. Ouyang, W.M. Pan, X.H. Peng, Z. Zhang, G.Y. Zhao
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

A 325 MHz RFQ is designed to accelerate a beam current of 15 mA in CW mode with injection energy of 35 keV and output energy of 3.2 MeV for China Accelerator Driven sub-critical System (ADS) injector I. Total RF power of 320 kW has to be delivered into the RFQ cavity. For reliable operation, four input couplers are adopted to share the driven power. A coaxial loop type input coupler is developed. The coupler features a Tristan type RF window, a doorknob to realize the transition from a half-height WR2300 waveguide to a coaxial line and a coaxial line with a coupling antenna loop. Two prototypes of the window and inner conductor assemblies have been fabricated and received high power test. The prototypes were tested up to 100 kW CW RF power in traveling wave mode. This paper will describe the design, fabrication and high power test of the coupler in details.

 


 



THPWO042
Macroparticle Simulation Studies of  a Beam-core Matching Experiment
3860


 

H. Jiang, P. Chen, S. Fu, T. Huang, F. Li, P. Li, H.C. Liu, C. Meng, M. Meng, Z.C. Mu, H.F. Ouyang, J. Peng, L.Y. Rong, B. Sun, J.M. Tian, B. Wang, S.C. Wang, W.Q. Xin, T.G. Xu, L. Zeng, F.X. Zhao
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

We compared the 3-D nonlinear macro- particle code IMPACT simulations with the measured beam-core profiles obtained by the wire-scanners in the beam-core matching experiment. Quadrupole scans were used to determinate the transverse properties of the RFQ output beam. The Gaussian distribution was chosen as the initial particle distribution, which is well fit with the measured beam-core profile. We matched the beam using the least-squares fitting procedure that adjusted the first four matching quadrupoles to produce equal rms beam size in the last six wire scanners. Simulations had been fairly successful in reproducing the core of the measured matched beam profiles.

 


 



THPWO043
Progress on the Physics Design of the C-ADS Injector Scheme I
3863


 

Z. Li, P. Cheng, H. Geng, C. Meng, H.F. Ouyang, B. Sun, J.Y. Tang, F. Yan, Z. Yang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: Surported by China ADS Project
The China ADS (C-ADS) driver linac is composed of two parallel 10 MeV injectors and a main linac which boosts the beam further to 1.5 MeV. There are two design schemes for the injectors based on different working frequency and superconducting cavity structures and are under developing at the same time on IHEP and IMP. The Injector Scheme I, which is proposed by IHEP, works at 325 MHz, the same frequency of the main linac, and superconducting Spoke cavities with geometry beta of 0.12, the same type of cavity as the main linac too, are applied after the RFQ. In this paper, the latest progress on physics design will be presented.

 


 



THPWO044
Error Analysis and Beam Loss Control in C-ADS Main Linac
3866


 

C. Meng, Z. Li, J.Y. Tang, F. Yan
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

The China ADS (C-ADS) driver linac is defined to deliver a CW proton beam of 1.5 GeV in energy and 10 mA in current. To meet the extremely high reliability and availability, it is very important and imperative to perform detailed error analysis to simulate the real machine, where the errors always exist. The error studies are by very intense macro-particle simulations by both Trace-Win and TRACK codes with space charge effects included. Through error analysis the proper closed-orbit correction scheme and the maximum tolerable hardware and alignment errors can be found. This paper presents the method to optimize the apertures of elements in the C-ADS main linac. According to the detailed sensitivity analysis of different errors, the static and dynamic errors for the main linac are proposed. The basic lattice scheme has also been re-optimized based on the error studies. The correction scheme is also described, and with the correction scheme the residual orbit can be controlled very well. The influence of the correctors and BPM failures on the correction scheme is also studied.

 


 



THPWO045
Commissioning Plan for the CSNS Linac
3869


 

J. Peng, S. Fu, J. Li, Y. Li, H.C. Liu, H.F. Ouyang, N. Wang, S. Wang, T.G. Xu
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

The linac of the China Spallation Neutron Source(CSNS) will be commissioned from October 2013. The linac will be commissioned in three phases. The delivery of beam to the RCS is planned for October 2015. This paper describes the commissioning plans for the MEBT and DTL parts of the linac. Techniques for finding the RF set-point, matching and steering are presented, as well as codes to assist in the beam commissioning.

 


 



THPWO046
The Preparation for the Commissioning of CSNS Accelerators
3872


 

S. Wang, S. Fu, H.F. Ouyang, J. Peng
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

The China Spallation Neutron Source (CSNS) is now under construction, and the beam commissioning of ion source will start from the end of 2013, and will last several years for whole accelerators. The commissioning plan for the CSNS accelerators will be presented, including the commissioning correlated parameters, beam instrumentation in used commissioning, the goal at different commissioning stages. The development of high level application software will also be presented.

 


 



THPWO047
The LLRF Measurement and Analysis of the SSC-LINAC RFQ
3875


 

G. Liu, J.E. Chen, S.L. Gao, Y.R. Lu, Z. Wang, X.Q. Yan, K. Zhu
                       PKU, Beijing, People's Republic of China
X. Du, Y. He, G. Pan, Y.Q. Yang, X. Yin, Y.J. Yuan, Z.L. Zhang, H.W. Zhao
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: Supported by NSFC(11079001)
The manufacturing process of the SSC-LINAC RFQ went to end and the LLRF measurement has been done. The frequency of the RFQ is 53.557 MHz without tuning, which is not far from the design value 53.667 MHz. The unflatness of the field along the beam axis is less than ±4%, which meets the simulation results. The dipole field is in the acceptable margin as well. The frequency will be adjusted by tuning plungers in operation. In this paper, the field distribution along the cavity has been measured and compared with the modulated electrodes simulation. The difference and its influences on the beam transmission have been analyzed.

 


 



THPWO048
A CW High Charge State Heavy Ion RFQ for SSC-LINAC
3878


 

Y.R. Lu, J.E. Chen, S.L. Gao, G. Liu, Z. Wang, X.Q. Yan, K. Zhu
                       PKU, Beijing, People's Republic of China
Y. He, L.P. Sun, J.W. Xia, Y.Q. Yang, X. Yin, Y.J. Yuan, Z.L. Zhang, H.W. Zhao
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: Supported by NSFC 11079001
To improve the super heavy ion beam injection efficiency and supply high current heavy ion beam for Separated Sector Cyclotron, A CW RFQ for heavy ion with high charge state has been designed and manufactured in the last two years. This RFQ will operate at 53.667MHz, will accelerate super heavy ions such as 238U34+ to 143keV/u. This paper will introduce the SSC-LINAC components, especially the RFQ beam dynamics, full length structure design, tuning and cooling method. Furthermore RF system and RF commissioning with full power for the RFQ power cavity will also be presented.

 


 



THPWO049
Preliminary Beam Dynamics and Structure Design of One 50mA/CW RFQ with Ramped Inter-vane Voltage
3881


 

L. Du, X. Guan, C.-X. Tang, Q.Z. Xing
                       TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: Work supported by National Natural Scienccontracte Foundation of China (Major Research Plan Grant No. 91126003 and Project 11175096).
The beam dynamics and structure design of a ramped-voltage CW RFQ (Radio Frequency Quadrupole) accelerator for a NSFC (National Natural Science Foundation of China) Project at Tsinghua University is presented in this paper. The ramped-voltage RFQ, in which the inter-vane voltage increases from the low-energy end to the high-energy end, is compact and efficient. The RFQ, with the operating frequency of 325 MHz, will capture a 50 mA/CW, 50 keV proton beam from the RF source and accelerate it to 3 MeV, an energy suitable for chopping and injecting the beam in a conventional Drift Tube Linac. After optimization, the total length is as short as 2.9 m and the transmission rate is above 97%. The design of RFQ structure including the undercuts will also be shown.

 


 



THPWO050
High Power Test and Beam Commissioning of he CPHS RFQ Accelerator
3884


 

Q.Z. Xing, C. Cheng, L. Du, Q. Du, T. Du, C. Jiang, H.T. Lu, J. Ni, Q. Qiang, C.-X. Tang, X.W. Wang, Y.G. Yang, H.Y. Zhang, S.X. Zheng
                       TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China
J.H. Billen
                       Self Employment, Private address, USA
W.Q. Guan, Y. He, J. Li
                       NUCTECH, Beijing, People's Republic of China
X. Guan
                       Tsinghua University, Beijing, People's Republic of China
J. Stovall
                       STFC/RAL, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom
L.M. Young
                       LMY Technology, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the “985 Project” of the Ministry of Education of China, National Natural Science Foundation of China (Major Research Plan Grant No. 91126003 and 11175096).
We present, in this paper, the high power test result and the beam commissioning status of a Radio Frequency Quadrupole (RFQ) accelerator for the Compact Pulsed Hadron Source (CPHS) at Tsinghua University. The 3-meter-long RFQ is designed to deliver 3 MeV protons to the downstream High Energy Beam Transport (HEBT) with the peak current of 50 mA, pulse length of 0.5 ms and beam duty factor of 2.5%. The RFQ has been designed, manufactured, and installed at Tsinghua University. High-vacuum test of the RFQ has been carried out carefully and the cooling system has been mounted. At the beginning of 2013, the high power RF test has been performed and the first 3 MeV proton beam is obtained.

 


 



THPWO051
Status of CPHS Project
3887


 

S.X. Zheng, H.B. Chen, C. Cheng, Q. Du, T. Du, X. Guan, X.Y. Jia, C. Jiang, H.T. Lu, C.-X. Tang, D. Wang, D. Wang, X.W. Wang, H.Y. Zhang, Z. Zhang
                       TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China
W.Q. Guan, Y. He, J. Li, D.-S. zhang
                       NUCTECH, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

CPHS (Compact Pulsed Hadron Source) project was initiated in Tsinghua University at 2009. It consists of a 13 MeV proton Linac (RFQ+DTL), a neutron target station and some neutron stations. The construction of 3 MeV Linac (RFQ only) and target station will be finished at the end of 2012. And initial commissioning will be started at the early of year 2013. The progress and results of early commissioning will be presented at this paper. Then we will report the next plan also.

 


 



THPWO056
A 5.3 MeV/U,  200MHz APF DTL for Carbon Ions as an Injector of Medical Synchrotron
3890


 

P. Jiang, Y.J. Yuan
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China

 


 

A new low energy medium frequency DTL for 12C5+ with alternative phase focusing method (APF), which has advantage in compact space and low cost, was designed as an injector of medical synchrotron. There is no conventional focusing elements in the APF DTL, and transversal focusing is realized using RF field by varying synchronous phase instead. The envelopes of beam size are presented and the emittance change of six-dimension phase space is shown. The simple method proposed by Y. Iwata was used to create synchronous phase array. Since the motion between transversal and longitudinal plains are coupled, the longitudinal acceptance of the DTL is not large.

 


 



THPWO059
Beam Dynamics Design of the Main Accelerating Section with  KONUS in the CSR-LINAC Proposal
3895


 

X.H. Zhang, H. Du, J.W. Xia, X. Yin, Y.J. Yuan
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China

 


 

The CSR-LINAC as the injector of the Cooling Storage Ring (CSR) has been proposed in Heavy Ion Research Facility in Lanzhou (HIRFL). The injection linac mainly consists of two Linacs, the Radio Frequency Quadrupole linac (RFQ) and the Drift Tube Linac (DTL). The KONUS (Kombinierte Null Grad Struktur) concept has been introduced to the drift tube linac section. In this paper, the re-matching of the main accelerating section will be finished in the 3.7MeV/u scheme and the new beam dynamics design updating to 7MeV/u will be shown. Through the beam re-matching, the relative emittance growth has been suppressed greatly along the linac. The KONUS structure is also adopted in the beam dynamics design that update from 3.7MeV/u to 7MeV/u and the good beam quality and transmission is shown.

 


 



THPWO062
Status of the RAON Accelerator Systems
3898


 

D. Jeon
                       IBS, Daejeon, Republic of Korea

 


 

Funding: This work is made possible by the support of the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning (MSIP) and the National Research Foundation (NRF) of the Republic of Korea.
The RAON is the heavy ion accelerator being built in Korea to build the In-flight Fragment (IF) and Isotope Separation On-Line (ISOL) facilities to support cutting-edge researches in various science fields. Superconducting linac with 200 MeV/u, 400 kW is the driver for the IF facility and the 70 MeV, 70 kW H− cyclotron is the driver for the ISOL facility. These facilities are to provide high intensity stable beams and rare isotope beams for the users domestic and abroad. The design and prototyping efforts are under way such as superconducting cavities and magnets. Status of the RAON accelerator systems is presented.

 


 



THPWO063
The Early Stage of the Cavity Fabrication Process (ECT and furnace) for RAON
3901


 

M.J. Joung, H.C. Jung, H.J. Kim
                       IBS, Daejeon, Republic of Korea

 


 

RAON is consist of three part about the acceleration line. These are SCL1, SCL2 and SCL3. SCL1 and SCL3 will be made from QWR (Qarter Wave Resonator) and HWR (Half Wave Resonator). And SCL2 will be made from SSR1 (Single Spoke Resonator) and SSR2 (Single Spoke Resonator). Accordingly, The RAON needs 48 QWR, 276 HWR, 88 SSR1 and 136 SSR2 to get the performance that we want. To accelerate the particle using lots of cavity, we have to make a process of cavity fabrication for RAON. We will compare to each process made from the other laboratories and to make the optimal process for RAON to get the performance that we want. And that process will consider the type of cavity and the purpose of the accelerator. I will introduce the early stage of the cavity fabrication process for RAON in this paper.

 


 



THPWO064
Superconducting Linac for the Rare Isotope Science Project
3903


 

H.J. Kim, H.J. Cha, M.O. Hyun, H.J. Jang, D. Jeon, J.D. Joo, M.J. Joung, H.C. Jung, Y.C. Jung, Y. Kim, M. Lee, G.-T. Park
                       IBS, Daejeon, Republic of Korea

 


 

Abstract The RISP (Rare Isotope Science Project) accelerator has been planned to study heavy ion of nuclear, material and medical science at the Institute for Basic Science (IBS). It can deliver ions from proton to Uranium. The facility consists of three superconducting linacs of which superconducting cavities are independently phased and operating at three different frequencies, namely 81.25, 162.5 and 325 MHz. Requirement of the linac design is especially high for acceleration of multiple charge beams. In this paper, we present the RISP linac design, the superconducting cavity and the requirements of beam diagnosics.

 


 



THPWO065
Optics Design and Correction of High Order Aberration of the Charge Stripper Beam Line of RAON
3906


 

H.J. Kim, D. Jeon, H.J. Kim
                       IBS, Daejeon, Republic of Korea
J.G. Hwang, E.-S. Kim
                       Kyungpook National University, Daegu, Republic of Korea

 


 

RAON (Rare isotope Accelerator Of Newness) in Korea will be providing the 400 kW of 238U79+ beam with 8 puA and 200 MeV/u. One of the critical components of this project in the SCL is the design of the charge stripper. Between the two segments of the SCL, the charge stripper strips electrons from ion beams to enhance the acceleration efficiency in the following SCL2. For high efficiency of the acceleration and high power in SCL2, the optimum energy of striped ion in solid carbon foil stripper for SCL1 was estimated by using code LISE. The thickness of the solid carbon foil is 300 ug/m2. Based on this study, the charge stripping efficiency of solid carbon stripper is ~80 %. For the charge selection from ions which produced by the solid carbon stripper, the dispersive section is required in down-stream of the foil. The designed optics for dispersive section is based on the mirror-symmetric optics to minimize the effect of high-order aberration. And the high-order aberration in designed optics was investigated and performed the correction of high-order effect using sextupole magnets.

 


 



THPWO066
Beam Commissioning of KOMAC Linac
3909


 

J.-H. Jang, Y.-S. Cho, D.I. Kim, H.S. Kim, H.-J. Kwon, B.-S. Park, J.Y. Ryu, K.T. Seol, Y.-G. Song, S.P. Yun
                       KAERI, Daejon, Republic of Korea

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology of the Korean Government.
The proton engineering frontier project (PEFP), which is the first phase of Korea multi-purpose accelerator complex (KOMAC), developed a 100-MeV proton linac which consists of a 50 keV injector, a 3-MeV radio frequency quadrupole (RFQ) and a 100-MeV drift tube linac (DTL). The installation of the linac was finished in 2012. The goal of the beam commissioning in spring 2013 is accelerating 100-MeV proton beams with the beam power of 1 kW to the beam dump which is located downstream of the linac. This work summarized the beam commissioning result for the linac.

 


 



THPWO068
Resonance Frequency Control Characteristics of the 100-MeV Drift Tube Linac
3912


 

H.-J. Kwon, Y.-S. Cho, J.-H. Jang, H.S. Kim, K.T. Seol, Y.-G. Song
                       KAERI, Daejon, Republic of Korea

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by the Ministry of Science and Technology of the Korean Government.
A 100-MeV, 20mA proton accelerator has been developed by KAERI (Korea Atomic Energy Institute). Total 11 DTL (Drift Tube Linac) tanks are used to accelerator the proton beam from 3-MeV to 100-MeV. A RCCS (Resonance frequency Control Cooling System) has been developed to control the resonance frequency of each DTL tank. The coolant for the drift tube and quadrupole magnets are supplied by the RCCS, whereas the wall coolant temperature maintains constant at 27 degree C by using the DI water supplied from the utility. In this paper, the resonance frequency control schemes are summarized and the control characteristics of the DTL tank by using the RCCS are discussed.

 


 



THPWO069
Development of the NICA Injection Facility
3915


 

A.V. Butenko, E.D. Donets, E.E. Donets, V.V. Fimushkin, A. Govorov, A.D. Kovalenko, K.A. Levterov, I.N. Meshkov, V. Monchinsky, A.Yu. Ramsdorf, A.O. Sidorin, G.V. Trubnikov
                       JINR, Dubna, Moscow Region, Russia
H. Hoeltermann, H. Podlech, U. Ratzinger, A. Schempp
                       BEVATECH OHG, Offenbach/Main, Germany
A. Kolomiets, G. Kropachev, T. Kulevoy
                       ITEP, Moscow, Russia
S.M. Polozov
                       MEPhI, Moscow, Russia

 


 

The new accelerator complex Nuclotron-based Ion Collider fAcility (NICA) is assumed to operate using two injectors: the Alvarez-type linac LU-20 as injector for light ions, polarized protons and deuterons and a new linac HILac for heavy ions. The main features of ion sources and both linacs are presented. Upgrade for pre-accelerator of LU-20 is described.

 


 



THPWO070
ESS DTL RF MODELIZATION: FIELD TUNING AND STABILIZATION
3918


 

R. De Prisco
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden
M. Comunian, F. Grespan, A. Pisent
                       INFN/LNL, Legnaro (PD), Italy
A.R. Karlsson
                       Lund University, Lund, Sweden

 


 

The Radio Frequency (RF) design of Drift Tube Linac (DTL) of the European Spallation Source, ESS, has been defined in order to satisfy the accelerating field requirements of beam dynamic studies and to reduce peak field levels in the critical areas. The electro-magnetic field is stabilized with post-couplers. The cells geometries of the DTL are optimized to accommodate permanent magnet quadrupoles (PMQ), to get maximum shunt impedance, to meet the Moretti criterion at the low energy part and to facilitate the mechanical construction.

 


 



THPWO072
Design Options of the ESS Linac
3921


 

M. Eshraqi, H. Danared, D.P. McGinnis
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden

 


 

The European Spallation Source, ESS, uses a linear accelerator to deliver the high intensity proton beam to the target station. The nominal average beam power is 5~MW with a peak beam power at target of 125~MW. During last year the ESS linac was costed, and to meet the budget a few modifications were introduced to the linac design, namely the final energy was decreased from 2.5~GeV to 2.0~GeV and the beam current was increased accordingly to compensate the lower final energy. As a result the linac is designed to meet the cost objective by taking a higher risk. This paper focuses on the new design options, beam dynamics requirements of the design and finally on the beam dynamics performance of the linac.

 


 



THPWO073
European Spallation Source Afterburner Concept
3924


 

D.P. McGinnis, M. Lindroos, R. Miyamoto
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden

 


 

The European Spallation Source (ESS) is a long pulsed source based on a high power superconducting linac. The long pulse concept is an excellent strategy of maximizing high beam power while minimizing peak power on the target. Chopping in the long pulse concept provides the necessary resolution for many neutron physics applications. However, there are some neutron physics applications in which both peak neutron flux and high resolution are desired. The peak flux of the ESS can be enhanced by placing an accumulator ring at the end of the linac. A bunch by bunch extraction scheme can be used to optimize the proton pulse time profile that maximizes peak neutron flux while minimizing instantaneous beam power on the target.

 


 



THPWO074
Technical Design of the ESS Facility
3927


 

S. Peggs
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden

 


 

The 5 MW European Spallation Source is entering a construction phase for the entire facility. This paper surveys the unique features, challenges and open issues that exist, from ion source to target, and from moderator to instruments. It is consistent with the ESS-wide Technical Design Report, published in April 2013.
The paper is presented on behalf of the ESS consortium, and all the contributors to the ESS TDR.

 


 



THPWO075
Beam Loss Limits in High Power Proton Linear Accelerators
3930


 

L. Tchelidze
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden
J. Stovall
                       STFC/RAL, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom

 


 

High power hadron linear accelerators are designed based on 1 W/m loss limit criteria. The loss limit originates from the hands-on-maintenance allowance of the accelerators and limits average dose rate level to less than 0.1 - 1 mSv/hr at 30 cm from a machine after 100 days of continuous operation and 4 hours of down time. However, machine activation and thus beam loss limit depends on incident particle energy and 1 W/m is only a good approximation for energies 100-200 MeV and higher (in H-/H+ accelerators). At lower energies though, one could allow much higher than 1 W/m without excess activation. A careful analysis of energy dependent loss limits was performed for proton linacs as part of the study for the European Spallation Source (ESS) linac, for energy ranges 5 MeV – 2.5 GeV. ESS linac is to be built in Lund, Sweden and will deliver 5 MW proton beam to the target. MARS code was used for calculations and beam loss limits were derived as a function of energy.

 


 



THPWO076
Design Study for 10 MHz Beam Frequency of Post-accelerated RIBs at HIE-ISOLDE
3933


 

M.A. Fraser, R. Calaga, I.-B. Magdau
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

An increased bunch spacing of approximately 100 ns is requested by several research groups targeting experimental physics at HIE-ISOLDE. A design study testing the feasibility of retrofitting the existing 101.28 MHz REX (Radioactive ion beam EXperiment) RFQ with a sub-harmonic external pre-buncher at the ISOLDE radioactive nuclear beam facility has been carried out as a means of decreasing the beam frequency by a factor of 10. The proposed scheme for the 10 MHz bunch repetition frequency is presented and its performance assessed with beam dynamics simulations. The opportunity to reduce the longitudinal emittance formed in the RFQ is discussed along with the options for chopping the satellite bunches populated in the bunching process.

 


 



THPWO077
Status and Plans for the Upgrade of the LHC Injectors
3936


 

R. Garoby, H. Damerau, S.S. Gilardoni, B. Goddard, K. Hanke, A.M. Lombardi, D. Manglunki, M. Meddahi, B. Mikulec, L. Ponce, E.N. Shaposhnikova, R. Steerenberg, M. Vretenar
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The plans for preparing the LHC injectors to fulfill the needs of the LHC during the next decade have significantly progressed in 2012. Linac4 construction has passed major steps of pre-series fabrication. Hardware developments and beam studies have allowed refining the baseline actions to implement and the beam characteristics achievable at injection into the collider for protons as well as for Lead ions. These achievements are described in this paper, together with the updated project planning matched to the new schedule of the LHC.

 


 



THPWO078
Status of the Upgrade of the CERN PS Booster
3939


 

K. Hanke, O. Aberle, M. E. Angoletta, W. Bartmann, S. Bartolome, E. Benedetto, C. Bertone, A. Blas, P. Bonnal, J. Borburgh, D. Bozzini, A.C. Butterworth, C. Carli, E. Carlier, J.R.T. Cole, P. Dahlen, M. Delonca, T. Dobers, A. Findlay, R. Froeschl, J. Hansen, D. Hay, S. Jensen, J.-M. Lacroix, P. Le Roux, L.A. Lopez Hernandez, C. Maglioni, A. Masi, G.W. Mason, S.J. Mathot, B. Mikulec, Y. Muttoni, A. Newborough, D. Nisbet, S. Olek, M.M. Paoluzzi, A. Perillo-Marcone, S. Pittet, B. Puccio, V. Raginel, B. Riffaud, I. Ruehl, A. Sarrió Martínez, J. Tan, B. Todd, V. Venturi, W.J.M. Weterings
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The CERN PS Booster (PSB) is presently undergoing an ambitious consolidation and upgrade program within the frame of the LHC Injectors Upgrade (LIU) project. This program comprises a new injection scheme for H− ions from CERN’s new Linac4, the replacement of the main RF systems and an energy upgrade of the PSB rings from 1.4 to 2.0 GeV which includes the replacement of the main magnet power supply as well as the upgrade of the extraction equipment. This paper describes the status and plans of this work program.

 


 



THPWO079
A Possible Scheme to Deliver 2 GeV Beams from the CERN PS Booster to the ISOLDE Facility
3942


 

K. Hanke, W. Bartmann, J.R.T. Cole, R. Fernandes Luis, A. Newborough, S. Pittet, T. Stora, D. Voulot
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The CERN PS Booster (PSB) is presently undergoing an upgrade program to increase its beam energy from 1.4 GeV to 2.0 GeV. While this energy upgrade is targeted at LHC-type beams, the option of delivering 2 GeV beams to the ISOLDE facility has also been investigated. In this paper we present a preliminary study for delivering 2 GeV beams to ISOLDE including the physics motivation and the implications on the accelerator hardware.

 


 



THPWO080
Operational Performance of the LHC Proton Beams with the SPS Low Transition Energy Optics
3945


 

Y. Papaphilippou, G. Arduini, T. Argyropoulos, W. Bartmann, H. Bartosik, T. Bohl, C. Bracco, S. Cettour-Cave, K. Cornelis, L.N. Drøsdal, J.F. Esteban Müller, B. Goddard, A. Guerrero, W. Höfle, V. Kain, G. Rumolo, B. Salvant, E.N. Shaposhnikova, H. Timko, D. Valuch, G. Vanbavinckhove, J. Wenninger
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
E. Gianfelice-Wendt
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

An optics in the SPS with lower integer tunes (20 versus 26) was proposed and introduced in machine studies since 2010, as a measure for increasing transverse and longitudinal instability thresholds, especially at low energy, for the LHC proton beams. After two years of machine studies and careful optimisation, the new “Q20” optics became operational in September 2012 and steadily delivered beam to the LHC until the end of the run. This paper reviews the operational performance of the Q20 optics with respect to transverse and longitudinal beam characteristics in the SPS, enabling high brightness beams injected into the LHC. Aspects of longitudinal beam stability, transmission, high-energy orbit control and beam transfer are discussed.

 


 



THPWO081
Design Options of a High-power Proton Synchrotron for LAGUNA-LBNO
3948


 

Y. Papaphilippou, J. Alabau-Gonzalvo, A. Alekou, F. Antoniou, M. Benedikt, I. Efthymiopoulos, R. Garoby, F. Gerigk, B. Goddard, C. Lazaridis, A.S. Parfenova, E.N. Shaposhnikova, R. Steerenberg
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Design studies have been initiated at CERN, exploring the prospects of future high-power proton beams for producing neutrinos, within the LAGUNA-LBNO project. These studies include the design of a 2 MW high-power proton synchrotron (HP-PS) using the LP-SPL as injector. This paper resumes the design options under study in order to reach this high power, and their implications regarding layout, magnet technology beam loss control and RF considerations. Optics optimization studies are also presented including beam transfer and collimation considerations.

 


 



THPWO082
Commissioning of the Linac4 RFQ at the 3 MeV Test Stand
3951


 

C. Rossi, L. Arnaudon, G. Bellodi, J.C. Broere, O. Brunner, A.M. Lombardi, J. Marques Balula, P. Martinez Yanez, J. Noirjean, C. Pasquino, U. Raich, F. Roncarolo, M. Vretenar
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
M. Desmons, A. France, O. Piquet
                       CEA/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France

 


 

Linac4, the future 160MeV H− injector to the CERN Proton Synchrotron Booster, is presently under construction at CERN as a first step of the planned upgrade of the LHC injectors. The low energy section of LINAC4, consisting of an ion source, a 352.2 MHz Radio Frequency Quadrupole (RFQ) and a chopper line is being commissioned in a dedicated test stand before installation in its final position in the tunnel. The RFQ is designed to accelerate a 45 keV, 70 mA, H− beam to 3 MeV, with an efficiency of 95% while preserving the transverse emittance. The RFQ, a four-vane structure 3 m in length, has been designed in collaboration with CEA/IRFU and it has been built at the CERN workshop. The precise fabrication has allowed to achieve a field flatness of 1%. The completion of the accelerating structure in September 2012 was followed by a complete series of bead-pull measurements and by high-power conditioning to the nominal power of 0.39 MW corresponding to a voltage of 78 kV across the 3 meters. Measurements with beam are foreseen during the first half of 2013. This paper reports the results of the low-power and high power RF commissioning as well as the status of beam measurements.

 


 



THPWO083
Simulation of a Beam Rotation System for the SINQ Spallation Source at PSI
3954


 

D. Reggiani, T. Reiss, M. Seidel, V. Talanov, M. Wohlmuther
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

With a nominal beam power of nearly 1 MW on target, the PSI-SINQ ranks among the world's most powerful neutron spallation sources. The proton beam transport to the SINQ target is carried out exclusively by means of linear elements. As a consequence, at the SINQ target entrance the beam presents Gaussian transverse x and y distributions with tails cut short by collimators. This leads to a highly uneven temperature distribution inside the SINQ zircaloy target, giving rise to thermal and mechanical stress. In view of a future beam intensity upgrade, the possibility of homogenizing the beam distribution by means of a fast beam rotation system is currently under study. Important aspects of this method concern the resulting neutron spectrum and flux distribution. The simulations of the beam distribution achievable thanks to this technique as well as its consequences in terms of neutron production are presented in this contribution.

 


 



THPWO084
Optimization of a Bi-spectral Boxed Side-by-Side Moderator for the Target-Moderator-Reflector System of the ESS
3957


 

T. Reiss, U. Filges, V. Talanov, M. Wohlmuther
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland
F. X. Gallmeier
                       ORNL, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA

 


 

Providing bi-spectral neutron beams is one of the main neutronics design criteria for the target-moderator-reflector (TMR) system of the European Spallation Source, to be built in Lund (Sweden). As a first step, the requirements of neutronics instruments regarding the neutron spectrum are formulated, a figure of merit is defined. In order to maximize the moderator performance to obtain bi-spectral neutron extraction, a parametrized model of the TMR system is developed and used with a MCNPX-based optimization framework. This model is then used to study and optimize the moderator performance, especially in the thermal and cold parts of the spectrum. Results obtained with an optimized moderator setup are dicussed and compared with the requirements of the instruments.

 


 



THPWO085
Numerical and Experimental Study for the Characterization of the Spallation Target Performance of the Ultracold Neutron Source at the Paul Scherrer Institut
3960


 

V. Talanov, M. Wohlmuther
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

Results of numerical calculation and experimental characterization of the neutron flux profile in the vicinity of the ultracold neutron source (UCN) at the Paul Scherrer Institut (PSI) are presented. At first, the MCNPX-based model of the Monte-Carlo simulation with its detailed description of the so-called ‘Cannelloni’-type spallation target assembly and the realistic proton beam profile modeling is described. Thereafter the experimental determination of the thermal neutron flux profile using the gold foil activation, along the height of the UCN vacuum tank, starting from the proton beam plane, is presented. Both calculations and measurements were performed for the standard operation mode, with several seconds of the full proton beam on the target. Finally, a comparison of simulation and experimental results is discussed.

 


 



THPWO086
Status of the RAL Front End Test Stand
3963


 

A.P. Letchford, M.A. Clarke-Gayther, D.C. Faircloth, S.R. Lawrie
                       STFC/RAL/ISIS, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom
S.M.H. Alsari, M. Aslaninejad, J.K. Pozimski, P. Savage
                       Imperial College of Science and Technology, Department of Physics, London, United Kingdom
J.J. Back
                       University of Warwick, Coventry, United Kingdom
G.E. Boorman, A. Bosco, S.M. Gibson
                       Royal Holloway, University of London, Surrey, United Kingdom
R.T.P. D'Arcy, S. Jolly
                       UCL, London, United Kingdom
C. Gabor, D.C. Plostinar
                       STFC/RAL/ASTeC, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom
J.K. Pozimski
                       STFC/RAL, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom

 


 

The Front End Test Stand (FETS) under construction at RAL is a demonstrator for the front end systems of a future high power proton linac. Possible applications include a linac upgrade for the ISIS spallation neutron source, new future neutron sources, accelerator driven sub-critical systems, a neutrino factory etc. Designed to deliver a 60mA H-minus beam at 3MeV with a 10% duty factor, FETS consists of a high brightness ion source, magnetic low energy beam transport (LEBT), 4-vane 324MHz radio frequency quadrupole, medium energy beam transport (MEBT) containing a high speed beam chopper and non-destructive photo-detachment diagnostics. This paper describes the current status of the project and future plans.

 


 



THPWO087
Measurement of Resonant Space Charge Effects in the J-PARC Linac
3966


 

D.C. Plostinar
                       STFC/RAL/ASTeC, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom
M. Ikegami
                       J-PARC, KEK & JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan
Y. Liu, T. Maruta
                       KEK/JAEA, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan

 


 

Traditionally, high intensity linac designs follow the “equipartitioning condition”, a strict control of the transverse and longitudinal tune ratios throughout the linac that ensures space-charge driven emittance exchange between the longitudinal and transverse planes is minimised. However, equipartitioning imposes strict rules on the linac design, thus limiting the design options and increasing the overall construction cost. More recently, practical tools have been developed that offer guidelines in designing non-equipartitioned linacs, by charting the stable regions in a tune ratio diagram (Hofmann’s Charts). While these stability diagrams have been backed by extensive multiparticle simulations and some experimental evidence, questions still remain regarding the practical consequences of crossing the resonances. In this paper preliminary results are presented from an experimental study conducted in the J-PARC linac, where for the first time we measured both the transverse and longitudinal emittance for different linac working points. A detailed analysis will be presented as well as a discussion on the wider implications of this experiment.

 


 



THPWO090
MEBT Design for the Front End Test Stand Project at RAL
3969


 

M. Aslaninejad, J.K. Pozimski, P. Savage
                       Imperial College of Science and Technology, Department of Physics, London, United Kingdom

 


 

The Front End Test Stand (FETS) linear accelerator at Rutherford Appleton laboratory (RAL) will accelerate a 60 mA, 2 ms, 50 pps H− beam up to 3 MeV. A new lattice design for the Medium Energy Beam Transport (MEBT) with a fast-slow chopping system is presented. Beam dynamic simulation has shown very good particle transmission in this new lattice with space charge effects included. The beam energy distribution on the beam choppers dumps is also calculated.

 


 



THPWO091
Staging Scenarios for Project-X
3972


 

N. Solyak, J.-P. Carneiro, V.A. Lebedev, S. Nagaitsev, J.-F. Ostiguy, A. Saini, A. Vivoli, V.P. Yakovlev
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: US DOE under contract DE-AC02-76CH03000.
Project-X is a high intensity proton source in development at Fermilab. At its heart is a linac based on superconducting technology comprising two distinct sections. The first one operates in CW mode and delivers beam with a flexible time structure to simultaneous experimental programs at 1 and 3 GeV. The second one operates in pulsed mode and accelerates a modest fraction (5%) of the beam from 3 GeV to 8 GeV for accumulation in the existing Main Injector complex. In an era of constrained budgets, construction in stages -with each stage capable of supporting worthy scientific programs - may be advantageous. Requirements for each program, coupled to the physical constraints imposed by the Fermilab site have led to a few possible scenarios, which are discussed in this contribution. In particular, we examine the implications of introducing bends in the linac at 1 and 3 GeV in terms of overall performance, flexibility and cost.

 


 



THPWO092
Update of Beam Optics and SRF Cavities for Project X
3975


 

T.N. Khabiboulline, P. Berrutti, V.A. Lebedev, A. Lunin, T.H. Nicol, J.-F. Ostiguy, T.J. Peterson, L. Ristori, A. Saini, N. Solyak, V.P. Yakovlev
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

The Project X staging [1] requires reconsideration of the beam optics and thus, the SRF system for the 3 GeV CW linac of the Project X. The revised beam optics is presented in the paper as well as revised cavity design for SSR2 section and a new concept of the linac segmentation. The new versions for the Project X cryo-modules for the SSR2 section, low-beta 650 MHz section and high-beta 650 MHz section are discussed. The beam extraction scheme at 1 GeV is discussed also. [1] S. Holmes, “Project X News, Strategy, Meeting Goals,” 2012 Fall Project X Collaboration Meeting, 27-28 November 2012, Fermilab.

 


 



THPWO094
Electromagnetic and Multi-particle Beam Dynamics Modeling of 4-Rod RFQs
3978


 

S.S. Kurennoy, R.W. Garnett, L. Rybarcyk
                       LANL, Los Alamos, New Mexico, USA

 


 

Detailed 3D modeling of the recently commissioned FNAL 4-rod RFQ was performed with the CST Studio Suite. The RFQ model is based on the CAD files used for its fabrication, which are imported in CST Studio. The electromagnetic (EM) analysis was done with MicroWave Studio (MWS) and the beam dynamics modeled with Particle Studio (PS) using the MWS-calculated fields. Realistic matched input CW beam distributions, generated externally with up to 10K particles per RF period and up to 70 RF periods long, are injected in the RFQ for PS simulations. The EM analysis reveals some interesting features of the RFQ fields; their origin and influence on the beam parameters is studied. In particular, the end-gap longitudinal field, which is usually not taken into account when an RFQ is designed with standard codes, can change the output beam energy. Our CST modeling results helped explain and successfully resolve some problems encountered in the FNAL RFQ commissioning. We plan to use a similar approach to evaluate a new 4-rod RFQ that will become a part of an upgraded front end of the LANSCE linac.

 


 




