













IPAC2013 - Table of Session: MOODB2 (Contributed Oral Presentations (Circular and Linear Colliders))


MOODB2 —  Contributed Oral Presentations (Circular and Linear Colliders)   (13-May-13   15:00—16:00)
Chair: K. Oide, KEK, Ibaraki, Japan


Paper
Title
Page



MOODB201
Proton-nucleus Collisions in the LHC
49


 

J.M. Jowett, R. Alemany-Fernandez, P. Baudrenghien, D. Jacquet, M. Lamont, D. Manglunki, S. Redaelli, M. Sapinski, M. Schaumann, M. Solfaroli Camillocci, R. Tomás, J.A. Uythoven, D. Valuch, R. Versteegen, J. Wenninger
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Following the high integrated luminosity accumulated in the first two Pb-Pb collision runs in 2010 and 2011, the LHC heavy-ion physics community requested a first run with p-Pb collisions. This almost unprecedented mode of collider operation was not foreseen in the baseline design of the LHC whose two-in-one magnet design imposed equal rigidity and, hence, unequal revolution frequencies, during injection and ramp. Nevertheless, after a successful pilot physics fill in 2012, the LHC provided 31 nb-1 of p-Pb luminosity per experiment, at an energy of 5.02 TeV per colliding nucleon pair, with several variations of the operating conditions, in early 2013. Together with a companion p-p run at 2.76 TeV, this was the last physics before the present long shutdown. We summarise the beam physics, operational adaptations and strategy that resulted in extremely rapid commissioning. Finally, we give an account of the progress of the run and provide an analysis of the performance.

 






Slides MOODB201 [6.547 MB]
            
 


 



MOODB202
Simulations and Measurements of Cleaning with 100 MJ Beams in the LHC
52


 

R. Bruce, R.W. Aßmann, V. Boccone, C. Bracco, M. Cauchi, F. Cerutti, D. Deboy, A. Ferrari, L. Lari, A. Marsili, A. Mereghetti, E. Quaranta, S. Redaelli, G. Robert-Demolaize, A. Rossi, B. Salvachua, E. Skordis, G. Valentino, V. Vlachoudis, Th. Weiler, D. Wollmann
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
L. Lari
                       IFIC, Valencia, Spain
E. Quaranta
                       Politecnico/Milano, Milano, Italy
G. Valentino
                       University of Malta, Information and Communication Technology, Msida, Malta

 


 

The CERN Large Hadron Collider is routinely storing proton beam intensities of more than 100 MJ, which puts extraordinary demands on the control of beam losses to avoid quenches of the superconducting magnets. Therefore, a detailed understanding of the LHC beam cleaning is required. We present tracking and shower simulations of the LHC's multi-stage collimation system and compare with measured beam losses, which allow us to conclude on the predictive power of the simulations.

 






Slides MOODB202 [6.343 MB]
            
 


 



MOODB203
vSTORM Facility Design and Simulation
55


 

A. Liu, A.D. Bross, D.V. Neuffer
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA
S.-Y. Lee
                       Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana, USA

 


 

Funding: Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory
A facility producing neutrinos from muons that decay in a storage ring can provide an extremely well understood neutrino beam for oscillation physics and the search for sterile neutrinos. The "neutrinos from STORed Muons"(nuSTORM) facility is based on this idea. The facility includes a target station with secondary particle collection, pion transfer line, pion injection, and a ~3.8 GeV/c muon storage ring. No muon cooling or RF sub-systems are required. The injection scenario for nuSTORM avoids the use of a separate pion decay channel and fast kickers. This paper reports a detailed description of the proposed injection scheme with full G4beamline simulations. We also present progresses on possible design options for a muon racetrack decay ring.

 






Slides MOODB203 [14.079 MB]
            
 


 




