













IPAC2016 - Table of Session: WEXB (Invited Oral, Particle Sources and Alternative Acceleration Techniques)


WEXB —  Invited Oral, Particle Sources and Alternative Acceleration Techniques   (11-May-16   09:00—09:30)
Chair: R.W. Assmann, DESY, Hamburg, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



WEXB01
Status, Plans and Potential Applications of the ELIMED Beam Line at ELI-Beamlines
2077


 

G.A.P. Cirrone, L. Allegra, A. Amato, A. Amico, G. Candiano, A.C. Caruso, L. Cosentino, M. Costa, G. Cuttone, G. De Luca, G. Gallo, S. Gammino, G. Larosa, R. Leanza, R. Manna, V. Marchese, G. Milluzzo, G. Petringa, J. Pipek, P.S. Pulvirenti, F. Romano, S. Salamone, F. Schillaci, V. Scuderi
                       INFN/LNS, Catania, Italy
G. Korn, D. Margarone, V. Scuderi
                       ELI-BEAMS, Prague, Czech Republic

 


 

Charged particle acceleration using ultra-intense and ultra-short laser pulses has gathered a strong interest in the scientific community and it is now one of the most attractive topics in the relativistic laser-plasma interaction research. Indeed, it could represent the future of particle acceleration and open new scenarios in multidisciplinary fields, in particular, medical applications. One of the biggest challenges consists of using, in a future perspective, high intensity laser-target interaction to generate high-energy ions for therapeutic purposes, eventually replacing the old paradigm of acceleration, characterized by huge and complex machines. In this framework, INFN-LNS (Italian Institute of Nuclear Physics, Catania (I)) in collaboration with ELI-Beamline Institute (Dolny Brezany, CZ) will realise, within 2017 the ELIMED (ELI-Beamlines MEDical and multidisciplinary applications) beamline. ELIMED will be the first Users' addressed transport beamline dedicated to the medical and multidisciplinary studies with laser-accelerated ion beams.

 






Slides WEXB01 [29.683 MB]
        
 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ DOI:10.18429/JACoW-IPAC2016-WEXB01

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




