













IPAC2013 - Table of Session: WEOBB1 (Contributed Oral Presentations (Hadron Accelerators))


WEOBB1 —  Contributed Oral Presentations (Hadron Accelerators)   (15-May-13   11:30—12:30)
Chair: S. Henderson, Fermilab, Batavia, USA


Paper
Title
Page



WEOBB101
The KOMAC Accelerator Facility
2052


 

Y.-S. Cho, J.-H. Jang, D.I. Kim, H.S. Kim, H.-J. Kwon, B.-S. Park, J.Y. Ryu, K.T. Seol, Y.-G. Song, S.P. Yun
                       KAERI, Daejon, Republic of Korea

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology of the Korean Government.
The development of the Korea Multi-purpose Accelerator Complex (KOMAC) accelerator facility was finished and went into the operation period from 2013. The facility consists of an 100-MeV proton linac including a 50-keV ion source, a 3-MeV RFQ, and a 100-MeV DTL, and 20-MeV and 100-MeV beam lines. The linac and beam lines were developed by the Proton Engineering Frontier Project (PEFP), the first phase of KOMAC from 2002 to 2012. The goal of the beam commissioning is delivering 100-MeV 1-kW proton beams to a beam bump in a 100-MeV target room. After finishing the commissioning, the user beam service will start from spring 2013. The KOMAC user facility consists of 2 beam lines in the initial operation stage and it will be increased to 10 beam lines in future. The one beam line is for 20-MeV proton beams which are extracted after 20-MeV part of the DTL tanks. A medium energy beam transport (MEBT) is installed there for the 20-MeV beam extraction and the beam matching to the next DTL tank. The other beam line is for 100-MeV proton beams. This work summarized the status of the KOMAC accelerator and beam lines.

 






Slides WEOBB101 [6.038 MB]
            
 


 



WEOBB102
Design Integration of the FRIB Driver Linac
2055


 

Y. Zhang, N.K. Bultman, F. Casagrande, C.P. Chu, A. Facco, P.E. Gibson, Z.Q. He, K. Holland, M. Leitner, Z. Liu, F. Marti, D. Morris, S. Peng, E. Pozdeyev, T. Russo, J. Wei, Y. Yamazaki, Z. Zheng
                       FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA

 


 

Funding: This material is based upon work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science under Cooperative Agreement DE-SC0000661
FRIB driver linac will deliver all stable heavy ion beams with beam energy more than 200 MeV/u, and beam power on target up to 400 kW. As the first SRF linac for high power heavy ion beams, there are many technical challenges, and integration of all the accelerator components is important. In this paper, major issues on integration of the FRIB drive linac are introduced and the corresponding studies are discussed, which include developments of accelerator online model, minimize uncontrolled beam loss in the SRF linac for high power heavy ion beams, beam diagnostic systems for beam tuning and for machine protection system (MPS), secondary collimators for charge selection of multi charge state ion beams, beam loading and stability of LLRF control, proper degauss process with superconducting (SC) solenoids when combined with SC dipole correctors, vacuum system, cryogenic and distribution system, helium pressure drop and stability of the cryomodules.

 






Slides WEOBB102 [3.557 MB]
            
 


 



WEOBB103
High Intensity Heavy Ion Accelerator Facility (HIAF) in China
 


 

J.C. Yang, W.P. Chai, D.Q. Gao, Y. He, P. Li, L.Z. Ma, X. Ma, R.S. Mao, J. Meng, J. Shi, L.T. Sun, J.W. Xia, G.Q. Xiao, H.S. Xu, D.Y. Yin, Y.J. Yuan, W.-L. Zhan, J.Q. Zhang, H.W. Zhao, X.H. Zhou
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China

 


 

HIAF ( High Intensity heavy ion Accelerator Facility ) is a new facility planned at China for heavy ion related research. The accelerator complex of this facility consists of a high current superconducting linac (S-Linac), a 45 Tm multifunction synchrotron (ABR-45) equipped with electron cooling for beam accumulation and acceleration and a high energy storage ring system with three storage rings CSR-45, MCR45-1, MCR45-2. The beam from ABR-45 can be stacked longitudinally to high intensity in CSR45. MCR45-1 and MCR45-2 provied two interaction points for Ion-Ion Merging and Electron-Ion Collision researches. The key features of the facility are unprecedented pulse beam intensities and versatile operation mode. The facility will provide intense beams of primary and rare isotopes relativistic heavy ions for a wide range of experiments in particle, nuclear and atomic physics. High energetic and highly bunched heavy ion beams are used to interact with dense plasma to probe the physics of nuclear fusion. Highly charged ions are used for atomic physics programs and a series of applied science.

 






Slides WEOBB103 [9.197 MB]
            
 


 




