













IPAC2017 - Table of Session: THYA (Invited Oral Presentations, Beam Dynamics and Electromagnetic Fields)


THYA —  Invited Oral Presentations, Beam Dynamics and Electromagnetic Fields   (18-May-17   11:00—11:30)
Chair: F. Zimmermann, CERN, Geneva, Switzerland


Paper
Title
Page



THYA1
New Scenarios of Microbunching Instability Control in Electron Linacs and Free Electron Lasers
3642


 

E. Roussel, E. Allaria, M.B. Danailov, S. Di Mitri, E. Ferrari, D. Gauthier, L. Giannessi, G. Penco, M. Veronese
                       Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A., Basovizza, Italy

 


 

Laser-heater systems are essential tools to control and optimize high-gain free-electron lasers (FELs) working in the x-ray wavelength range. Indeed, these systems induce a controllable increase of the energy spread of the electron bunch. The heating suppresses longitudinal microbunching instability which otherwise would limit the FEL performance. We demonstrate that, through the action of the microbunching instability, a long-wavelength modulation of the electron beam induced by the laser heater at low energy can persist until the beam entrance into the undulators. This coherent longitudinal modulation is exploited to control the FEL spectral properties, in particular, multicolor extreme-ultraviolet FEL pulses can be generated through a frequency mixing of the modulations produced by the laser heater and the seed laser in the electron beam. We present an experimental demonstration of this novel configuration carried out at the FERMI FEL.
*E. Roussel et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 115, 214801 (2015)

 






Slides THYA1 [14.837 MB]
        
 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ https://doi.org/10.18429/JACoW-IPAC2017-THYA1

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




