













IPAC2019 - Table of Session: MOZPLS (Invited Orals: Circular and Linear Colliders)


MOZPLS —  Invited Orals: Circular and Linear Colliders   (20-May-19   14:00—15:00)
Chair: Q. Qin, IHEP, Beijing, People’s Republic of China


Paper
Title
Page



MOZPLS1
Particle Physics at the High Energy Frontier with the Next Electron-Positron Collider
 


 

H. Aihara
                       University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan

 


 

After discovering the Higgs boson and the recent studies at the Large Hadron Collider at CERN, high precision measurements at a future electron-positron collider are proposed as the best way to further test the validity of the Standard Model. In particular, the complete knowledge of the initial state and the low background environment of an electron-positron collider allows for superior event reconstruction, enabling detailed measurements of the properties of the Higgs boson. These measurements will allow us to discriminate among the new physics models proposed to resolve several inconsistencies in the Standard Model, thereby improving our understanding of particle physics at the most fundamental scale and paving the way for the future of the field. The physics programme of a future electron-positron collider will be presented outlining the relative merits of the linear and circular collider projects currently under consideration in the community.

 






Slides MOZPLS1 [9.287 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



MOZPLS2
Ion Collider Precision Measurements With Different Species
28


 

G.J. Marr, E.N. Beebe, I. Blackler, W. Christie, K.A. Drees, P.S. Dyer, A.V. Fedotov, W. Fischer, C.J. Gardner, H. Huang, T. Kanesue, N.A. Kling, V. Litvinenko, C. Liu, Y. Luo, D. Maffei, B. Martin, A. Marusic, K. Mernick, M.G. Minty, C. Naylor, M. Okamura, I. Pinayev, G. Robert-Demolaize, T. Roser, P. Sampson, V. Schoefer, T.C. Shrey, D. Steski, P. Thieberger, J.E. Tuozzolo, K. Zeno, I.Y. Zhang
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Brookhaven Science Associates, LLC, under Contract No. DE-AC02-98CH10886 with the U.S. Department of Energy.
Precedent to electron cooling commissioning and collisions of Gold at various energies at RHIC in 2018, the STAR experiment desired an exploration of the chiral magnetic effect in the quark gluon plasma (QGP) with an isobar run, utilizing Ruthenium and Zirconium. Colliding Zr-96 with Zr-96 and Ru-96 with Ru-96 create the same QGP but in a different magnetic field due to the different charges of the Zr (Z=40) and Ru (Z=44) ions. Since the charge difference is only 10%, the experimental program requires exacting store conditions for both ions. These systematic error concerns presented new challenges for the Collider, including frequent reconfiguration of the Collider for the different ion species, and maintaining level amounts of instantaneous and integrated luminosity between two species. Moreover, making beams of Zr-96 and Ru-96 is challenging since the natural abundances of these isotopes are low. Creating viable enriched source material for Zr-96 required assistance processing from RIKEN, while Ru-96 was provided by a new enrichment facility under commissioning at Oak Ridge National Laboratory.

 






Slides MOZPLS2 [4.758 MB]
        
 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ https://doi.org/10.18429/JACoW-IPAC2019-MOZPLS2

 


About •
paper received ※ 11 May 2019       paper accepted ※ 20 May 2019        issue date ※ 21 June 2019
 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




