













IPAC2013 - Table of Session: THPME (Poster Session)


THPME —  Poster Session   (16-May-13   16:00—18:00)



Paper
Title
Page



THPME001
Permanent Magnets in Accelerators can save Energy, Space, and Cost
3511


 

F. Bødker, L.O. Baandrup, A. Baurichter, N. Hauge, K.F. Laurberg, B.R. Nielsen, G. Nielsen
                       Danfysik A/S, Taastrup, Denmark
O. Balling
                       Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark
F.B. Bendixen, P. Kjeldsteen, P. Valler
                       Sintex A/S, Hobro, Denmark
S.P. Møller, H.D. Thomsen
                       ISA, Aarhus, Denmark
H.-A. Synal
                       ETH, Zurich, Switzerland

 


 

Green Magnet technology with close to zero electrical power consumption without the need for cooling water saves costs, space and hence spares natural resources. A compact dipole based on permanent magnets has been developed at Danfysik in collaboration with Sintex and Aarhus University. This first Green Magnet has been delivered to ETH Zurich for testing in a compact accelerator mass spectrometer facility. Permanent NdFeB magnets generate a fixed magnetic field of 0.43 T at a gap of 38.5 mm without using electrical power in the H-type 90° bending magnet with a bending radius of 250 mm. Thermal drift of the permanent magnets is passively compensated. Small air cooled trim coils permit fine tuning of the magnetic field. Magnetic field measurements and thermal stability tests show that the Green Magnet fully meets the magnetic requirements of the previously used electromagnet. The use of Green Magnet technology in other accelerator systems like synchrotron light sources is discussed.

 


 



THPME002
Compact High-Tc 2G Superconducting Solenoid for Superconducting RF Electron Gun
3514


 

G. Nielsen, A. Baurichter, N. Hauge, E.K. Krauthammer
                       Danfysik A/S, Taastrup, Denmark

 


 

A solenoid with second generation (2G) high-temperature superconducting (HTS) coils for use in the superconducting RF electron gun of the WiFEL free electron laser at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, has successfully been designed, manufactured, tested and magnetically characterized at Danfysik. The solenoid is designed to operate in the temperature range between 5 K and 70 K. A stack of 16 serially connected pancake coils wound from SuperPower 2G HTS-tape is mounted inside a cylindrical iron yoke with end caps. The solenoid was designed with an excitation current margin of at least 130 % of the nominal operation current in the whole temperature range. At operation, 17.2 kA-turns yield a center field of 0.20 T and a field integral of 3.1 T2 mm, with very small integrated field errors. With a yoke outer diameter of 176 mm and a total length of 136 mm, the solenoid is very compact, and can therefore be placed very close to the RF cavity, improving its emittance compensating efficiency. Careful magnetic design minimizes the leak field at the SC cavity surface. Heat dissipation is negligible hence conduction cooling through copper braids attached to the iron yoke is sufficient.

 


 



THPME003
Standard Sextupole Magnets for NSLS-II Synchrotron
3517


 

C.W.O. Ostenfeld, N. Hauge, P. Ladefoged
                       Danfysik A/S, Taastrup, Denmark

 


 

Danfysik received the order to design, manufacture and test 169 Standard Sextupole Magnets for the NSLS-2 synchrotron. Extraordinary tight tolerances were specified for the mechanical and magnetic properties. We present a re-optimized magnetic pole profile to make a more mechanically robust design, suitable for large-scale manufacture. Due to a well-controlled wire erosion process during the manufacturing stage, the mechanical tolerances were kept on the 10 micron level, even after assembly/disassembly cycles. A major challenge of the project was to verify the magnetic performance of the magnets. This was done using our in-house harmonic measurement bench. We present magnetic measurements of the magnet series, measured over more than 24 months, which show high stability, both in terms of magnetic roll angle, error field terms, and integrated strength.

 


 



THPME005
Status of the Super FRS Magnet Development for FAIR
3519


 

H. Müller, E.S. Fischer, H. Leibrock, P. Schnizer, M. Winkler
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

The Super-FRS is a new two stage in flight separator to be built on the site of GSI, Darmstadt, Germany as part of the FAIR (Facility for Anti-proton and Ion Research). It will be able to create and spatially separate rare isotopes from all elements up to Uranium. Also very short lived nuclei will be observed efficiently. The Super-FRS has three branches, so a wide variety of experiments can be carried out in frame of the NUSTAR collaboration. The large acceptance needed leads to large apertures of the magnets and therefore only a superconducting solution is feasible. The magnets of the Super-FRS are of the so called superferric type. These magnets use superconducting coils but the field is shaped by magnetic iron yoke. In this contribution the actual status of the designs of the dipole and multipole magnets will be presented.

 


 



THPME007
HTS Magnet to Polarize Ultra Cold Neutrons
3522


 

K. Hatanaka, M. Fukuda, N. Hamatani, K. Kamakura, T. Saito, H. Ueda, Y. Yasuda, T. Yorita
                       RCNP, Osaka, Japan
T. Kawaguchi
                       KT Science Ltd., Akashi, Japan

 


 

We have developed magnets using High Temperature Superconductor (HTS) wires for this decade. A HTS magnet was designed and fabricated to polarize ultra cold neutrons (UCN). It consists of 10 double pancakes and the number of the total winding is 2,800 turns. The inner diameter of the coil is 131.5 mm and the coil is 105 mm long. The coil is conduction cooled by a pulse tube cryocooler and the operating temperature is expected to be 20 K. The maximum rated current is 200 A and the magnetic field is higher than 3.5 T at the center. Results of cooling tests and field measurements are presented.

 


 



THPME008
Experimental Study of Magnetic Properties for Magnet Material in CYCIAE-100
3525


 

J.Q. Zhong, T. Cui, M. Li, C. Wang, Z.H. Wang, J.J. Yang, T.J. Zhang
                       CIAE, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

The magnetic property of magnet material is one of the key factors that influence the distribution of magnetic field in large scale cyclotrons, especially embody on the vertical focusing of field and the first harmonic field error in cyclotron. According to the requirements of the physical design of CYCIAE-100, we have studied the pivotal factors, which impact on the maximum permeability, coercivity and B-H curve of material of CYCIAE-100 magnet, including the cooling rate during magnetic annealing and residual stress. The study results will be shown in this paper.

 


 



THPME010
Magnetic Shielding for the 1.3 GHz Cryomodule at IHEP
3528


 

S. Jin, Y. Chen, J. Gao, R. Ge, Y. Liu, Z.C. Liu, J.Y. Zhai, T.X. Zhao, H.J. Zheng
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China
F. Yang
                       China Iron and Steel Research Institute Group, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

An ILC-type Superconducting RF (SRF) accelerating unit is being studied at IHEP. In order to achieve the design performance including both accelerating gradient and quality factor, the SRF cavity must be cooled with ambient magnetic field well shielded to the level of several mG[1,2]. In this paper, permeability of several kinds of materials for magnetic shielding made in China is systematically studied in cooperation with China Iron & Steel Research Institute Group (CISRI) and reported for the first time. By using proper material, numerical calculation for the magnetic shielding design was done via the program of Opera-3D, and then magnetic shield was fabricated by CISRI. This paper will show those studies above and the final magnetic shielding effect at room temperature. Comparisons between simulation result and real effect will also be discussed in the paper, as well as the preliminary analysis for the magnetic field leaking of this design.

 


 



THPME011
Magnetic Field Design of the BAPS High Precision Quadrupole Magnet
3531


 

Y.S. Zhu, F.S. Chen, W. Kang, X.J. Sun
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

The Beijing Advanced Photon Source (BAPS) is a high performance light source planned to be constructed in China. High precision small aperture quadrupole magnets are required in the BAPS storage ring, which needs extremely high mechanical accuracy. Instead of the conventional manufacture method, the coils are comprised of several U-shaped solid copper sheets. So two-piece structure of the iron core can be adopted to reduce assembly error and improve the poles symmetry. Design considerations, 2D and 3D magnetic field calculations are presented in detail, and the needed mechanical precision is estimated according to the error field analysis.

 


 



THPME012
Measuring the Direction of Permanent Magnet Easy Axis by Helmholtz Coil
3534


 

X.Y. Jia, S.X. Zheng
                       TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

Permanent magnets for quadrupole focusing was used in drift-tube linac of the Compact Pulsed Hadron Sources(CPHS) in Tsinghua university. In order to ensure the accuracy of the quadrupole field can meet the design requirement, we need measure the strength and direction of remanence and choose the suit magnet. This paper proposed an easy way to get the direction of permanent magnet easy axis by Helmholtz coil without knowing the angle between magnet and the axis of the coil: the magnet rotational angle data was measured by rotary encoder and encoder would send trigger signal every turn at the same direction. First we started to record data when trigger signal was appeared. Then measured the magnet in three perpendicular directions (x,y,z). Last, caculated the remanence in three directions. We had measured some magnet by the new method and obtained satisfactory results.

 


 



THPME013
MAGNET SUBSYSTEM OF HLS II
3537


 

Q. Luo, N. Chen, G. Feng, N. Hu
                       USTC/NSRL, Hefei, Anhui, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Natural Science Foundation of China 11005106
To improve the performance of the Hefei Light Source (HLS), in particular to get higher brilliance synchrotron radiation and increase the number of straight section insertion devices, NSRL is now upgrading HLS to HLS II. Most of the magnets had to be replaced in this project. To measure the magnets, set of the magnetic measurement equipment in NSRL are also re-built. New magnets are sample measured, the discreteness and uniformity of integrated magnetic field all meet the requirements. Piecewise fitting and electron tracking of bending magnets for injector and beam transport line were performed and the results showed that the electron trajectory fitted the physical design well.

 


 



THPME018
Design of Dipole and Quadrupole for THz-FEL at CAEP
3540


 

L.G. Yan, W. Bai, D.R. Deng
                       CAEP/IAE, Mianyang, Sichuan, People's Republic of China

 


 

The high average power terahertz free electronic laser (THz-FEL) is being constructed at CAEP (China Academy of Engineering Physics), which is designed for lasing between 100-300 μm. The magnets of THz-FEL include 3 dipoles and 6 quadrupoles, and their fields and field quality were required by 6-9 MeV operation. This proceeding introduced the design and the main parameters of these magnets. The higher harmonic content of the magnetic field was also analyzed. All the design of magnets achieved the goal.

 


 



THPME019
Design of the Cold Mass Support Assembly of Test Cryomodule for IMP ADS-Injector II
3543


 

Y. Liu, S. Sun, J. Wang, L. Wang, S.Y. Wang
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China
X.L. Guo
                       JiangShu University, Jiangsu Province, People's Republic of China

 


 

In order to test the performance of the HWR cavities and verify the related technique for cooling of the cavities and the solenoids together, a test cryomodule (TCM1) containing one superconducting HWR cavity followed by one cold BPM and two superconducting solenoids was developed for the Injector II of the Accelerator Driven Sub-critical System (ADS). The TCM1 consists of the cryostat and the cold mass assembly. The cryostat is composed of vacuum chamber, thermal shields, cooling circuit, cold mass support assembly, and instrumentation. A set of cold mass support assembly was developed for supporting the cold mass working at 4.4 K. The support assembly mainly consists of Ti support frame, stainless steel rods, adjustable mechanisms and LHe cooling passage. It can not only support the weight of the cold mass but also stand the thermal stress during the cool down. In order not to affect the performance of the cavity, it will not impose any force on the HWR cavity. It can be adjustable for alignment of the cold mass both at room temperature and 4.4 K. This paper provides the detailed design of the TCM1 cold mass support assembly.

 


 



THPME020
Design of a Test Cryomodule for IMP ADS-Injector II
3546


 

L. Wang, Y. Liu, S. Sun, J. Wang, S.Y. Wang, S.H. Wang
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China
X.L. Guo
                       JiangShu University, Jiangsu Province, People's Republic of China

 


 

Two cryomodules are to be applied for the Injector II of the Accelerator Driven Sub-critical System. Each of them will contain 8 superconducting HWR cavities and 9 superconducting solenoids. In order to test the performance of the HWR cavities and validate related technique for cooling of cavities and solenoids together, a test cryomodule (TCM1) including one HWR cavity and two solenoids was developed. The design of the TCM1 cryostat was carried out by the Shanghai Institute of Applied Physics, CAS. Both the cavity and the solenoids will work at 4.4 K by bath cooling. The fast cooling down for the cavity from 100 K to 120 K is required to avoid degrading of the cavity performance. Before energization, the solenoids can be warmed up to above 10 K and re-cooled down for degaussing. The TCM1 can not only be cooled by using the dewar-filling system, but also operated by the refrigerator system. The main components of the cryostat include vacuum chamber, thermal shields, magnet current leads, cooling circuit, and cold mass support assembly. This paper presents the detailed design of the TCM1 cryostat.

 


 



THPME021
Application of Magnetic Field Integral Measurement of Magnet Module to Research Alterable Gap Undulator
3549


 

H.F. Wang, W. Zhang, Q.G. Zhou
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China

 


 

A set of magnetic measurement system and a suitable magnetic field optimization method for an In-Vacuum Undulator (IVU) with alterable gaps have been developed. The method is based on assembling orders and directions of all magnet modules for correcting rms optical phase error, electron trajectory and multipole components of the IVU. Magnetic field distributions on axis and off axis of every magnet block module are measured. Then the appropriate magnetic block modules will be chosen from measured magnet modules according to a sorting algorithm and assemble them to two inner girders of an IVU. This paper will describe a magnetic field measurement system, magnetic field optimization method and optimized results of an IVU with a period of 20 mm.

 


 



THPME023
A NEW HARMONIC COIL BENCH AT SINAP FOR THE ALS COMBINED FUNCTION SEXTUPOLE MAGNETS
3552


 

J.D. Zhang, H.W. Du, L. Yin, Q.G. Zhou
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China
N. Li, A. Madur
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA

 


 

A new harmonic coil bench has been developed at Shanghai Institute of Applied Physics (SINAP) to measure the ALS combined function sextupole magnets. The measurement system has been designed with the aim to perform precise, fast and reliable measurements of series of magnets. It determines the strength, and the multipole content of the field as well as the magnetic axis for precise positioning of alignment targets on top of the multipoles. The multipole, while supported on a marble platform, can be moved with regard to the rotating coil using multi-dimensional adjustment plate. The resolution of the movement is read out by micrometer with a few μm resolutions. This article introduces the measurement system constitutes.

 


 



THPME024
Magnet Designs of the In-flight Fragment Separator for the RISP
3555


 

D.G. Kim, J.Y. Kim, J.-W. Kim, M. Kim, M. Kim, C.C. Yun, A. Zaghloul
                       IBS, Daejeon, Republic of Korea

 


 

Magnets to be used for the in-flight fragment separator of the rare isotope science project (RISP) have been designed. The dipole magnets have a gap width of 150 mm and a magnetic rigidity of 10 Tm. The superferric quadrupole magnets have a pole tip radius of 170 mm and a maximum field gradient of 14 T/m. In addition, superconducting multiple coils will be wound around the cold bore tube of the quadrupole magnet to make high-order magnetic field corrections. In the high radiation region near the production target, warm iron dipole and quadrupole magnets employing high temperature superconductor (HTS) coils will be used in order to reduce the cold mass and to remove large radiation heat loads effectively at the temperature of 30-50 K. The design of dipole and quadrupole magnets has been optimized considering technical constraints and the manufacturing of the prototype of superferric quadrupole magnets is in progress. Simulation results using OPERA-3D and some results of prototyping will be presented.

 


 



THPME025
Design of Cryomodules for RAON
3558


 

Y. Kim, C. Choi, D. Jeon, H.J. Kim, M. Lee
                       IBS, Daejeon, Republic of Korea

 


 

The RAON linac utilizes four types of superconducting cavities such as QWR, HWR, SSR1, and SSR2 which are operating at 2 K in order to accelerate the various ion beams. The main role of the cryomodules is to maintain the cryogenic temperature for the superconducting cavity operation. Five types of cryomodules will be necessary since one QWR cavity, three and six HWR cavities, four SSR1 cavities, and eight SSR2 cavities will be installed in the dedicated cryomdoules. Total number of the cryomodule is 147, 48 for QWR, 60 for HWR, 22 for SSR1, 17 for SSR2. The cryomodules of RAON does not include focusing magnets but includes the cavities operating at 2 K. This paper describes the current status of the RAON cryomodule design. The issues included in the paper are the thermal load estimation, design of the components such as thermal shield and intercept of the cryomodules, and cryogenic flow circulation system according to the cryomodule operation.

 


 



THPME026
First Results of the PAL-XFEL Prototype Undulator Measurements
3561


 

D.E. Kim, H.S. Han, Y.-G. Jung, H.-G. Lee, S.B. Lee, W.W. Lee, K.-H. Park, H.S. Suh
                       PAL, Pohang, Kyungbuk, Republic of Korea
M.-H. Cho, I.S. Ko
                       POSTECH, Pohang, Kyungbuk, Republic of Korea

 


 

Pohang Accelerator Laboratory (PAL) is developing 10 GeV, 0.1 nm SASE based FEL for high power, short pulse X-ray coherent photon sources named PAL-XFEL. At the first stage PAL-XFEL needs two undulator lines for photon source. PAL is developing undulator magnetic structure based on EU-XFEL design. The hard X-ray undulator features 7.2 mm min magnetic gap, and 5.0 m magnetic length with maximum effective magnetic field larger than 0.908 T to achieve 0.1nm radiation at 10 GeV electron energy. A prototype for PAL-XFEL Xray undulator line is completed and the measurement, correction results are summarized.

 


 



THPME027
Design and Fabrication of Prototype Phase Shifter for PAL XFEL
3564


 

H.-G. Lee, Y.-G. Jung, H.-S. Kang, D.E. Kim, S.B. Lee, W.W. Lee, K.-H. Park, H.S. Suh
                       PAL, Pohang, Kyungbuk, Republic of Korea

 


 

Pohang Accelerator Laboratory(PAL) is developing a SASE X-ray Free Electron Laser based on 10 GeV linear accelerator. Prototype phase shifters are being developed to be used for the X-ray and Soft X-ray undulator line. The phase shifters will be used to adjust the phase of the electron beam with respect to that of the radiation field. Two prototype phase shifters are being developed. One is based on the EU-XFEL phase shifter using zero-potential iron yoke, and the other one is similar to FERMI phase shifter where only permanent magnets are used. Driving system consists of 5 phase stepping motor, left/right handed ball screw and absolute linear encoder. In this paper, we describe the design, fabrication and test results of the two phase shifter prototypes.

 


 



THPME028
Prototype Superconducting Magnets for the NICA Accelerator Complex
3567


 

H.G. Khodzhibagiyan, A.V. Bychkov, A.R. Galimov, O.S. Kozlov, G.L. Kuznetsov, I.N. Meshkov, V.A. Mikhaylov, A.V. Shabunov, A.Y. Starikov, G.V. Trubnikov
                       JINR, Dubna, Moscow Region, Russia

 


 

NICA is a new accelerator complex being under design and construction at the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research (JINR) in Dubna. Full-size prototype dipole and quadrupole magnets for the booster synchrotron and the NICA collider have been designed, manufactured and tested. The magnets are based on a cold window frame iron yoke and a saddle-shaped superconducting winding made from a hollow NbTi composite superconducting cable cooled with a forced two-phase helium flow at T = 4.5 K. The maximal operating magnetic field in the aperture is 1.8 T. The magnetic field ramp rate of 1.2 T/s should be achievable. The quench history, AC losses as a function of the magnetic field ramp rate and pressure drop in the cooling channels of the magnets at different pulsed operation modes are presented.

 


 



THPME029
Design of NSLS-II Booster Dipoles with Combined-function Magnetic Field
3570


 

S.V. Sinyatkin, A.N. Dubrovin, S.M. Gurov, E.B. Levichev, Yu.A. Pupkov, E.R. Rouvinsky, A.V. Sukhanov
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

Focusing and defocusing dipoles magnets of NSLS-II 3 GeV booster are designed, manufactured and measured in BINP, Russia. The magnets should provide the booster operation at energy from 170 MeV to 3.15 GeV with a 2 Hz frequency. Because of booster compactness the dipoles have quadrupole and sextupole components and should create high quality of field of ± 2·10-4 in region of ± 2 cm. In this paper the design and results of 2D and 3D simulation are presented.

 


 



THPME030
Magnetic Measurement Results of the NSLS-II Booster Dipole Magnets
3573


 

S.V. Sinyatkin, G.N. Baranov, A.M. Batrakov, P.N. Burdin, D.B. Burenkov, S.M. Gurov, V.A. Kiselev, V.V. Kobets, E.B. Levichev, I.N. Okunev, A. Polyansky, Yu.A. Pupkov, L.E. Serdakov, P. Vobly
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

Focusing and defocusing dipole magnets for NSLS-II 3 GeV booster are designed, manufactured and measured in BINP, Russia. Magnetic measurements of 32 BD and 28 BF magnets are made by BINP. In this paper the results of magnetic measurements of dipoles magnets in the field area of 0.638 – 11.829 kGs for BD type and 0.260 - 4.829 kGs for BF type are given. Analysis and comparison with magnetic field simulation are made.

 


 



THPME031
Ramped Magnetic Measurement of NSLS-II Booster Dipoles
3576


 

I.N. Okunev, G.N. Baranov, A.M. Batrakov, A.I. Erokhin, V.A. Kiselev, V.V. Kobets, A.V. Pavlenko, S.V. Sinyatkin, R.V. Vakhrushev
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

13. The magnetic system of NSLS II Booster are designed, manufactured and tested in BINP, Russia. The dipoles of the Booster have quadrupole and sextupole components and should create high quality of field ± 2·10-4 in region ± 2 cm. Magnets should provide performance of booster for energy from 170 MeV to 3.15 GeV with 2 Hz frequency. This report considers ramped magnetic measurement of NSLS-II Booster Dipoles.

 


 



THPME032
Magnetic Measurement of the NSLS-II Booster Dipole with Combine Functions
3579


 

I.N. Okunev, G.N. Baranov, A.M. Batrakov, P.N. Burdin, D.B. Burenkov, V.V. Kobets, A. Polyansky, L.E. Serdakov, S.V. Sinyatkin
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

The magnetic system of NSLS II Booster are designed, manufactured and tested in BINP, Russia. The dipoles of the Booster have quadrupole and sextupole components and should create high quality of field ± 2·10-4 in region ± 2 cm. Magnets should provide performance of booster for energy from 170 MeV to 3.15 GeV with 2 Hz frequency. To measure multipole field components one need to know accurate position of the probes in 3D coordinates. This report considers description of the magnetic measurement stand and achived accuracy for DC case.

 


 



THPME033
Pulsed Magnets for Injection and Extraction Sections of NSLS-II 3 GeV Booster
3582


 

A.N. Zhuravlev, A.M. Batrakov, A.D. Chernyakin, V.A. Kiselev, V.M. Konstantinov, A.V. Pavlenko, V.V. Petrov, E.P. Semenov, D.V. Senkov
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

Magnets for injection and extraction sections of NSLS-II 3 GeV booster are designed, manufactured and tested in BINP, Russia. This report considers the details of bump and septum magnets design, their parameters and results of inspection test in BINP. The design and electronics features of the measurement stand for these magnets are presented. Also, capabilities of specialized power supplies are listed and discussed. Finally, the first results of injection and extraction sections commissioning at BNL site are reported.

 


 



THPME034
The LHC Cryogenic Operation Availability Results from the First Physics Run of Three Years
3585


 

D. Delikaris, K. Brodzinski, S.D. Claudet, G. Ferlin, L.J. Tavian, U. Wagner
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The LHC (Large Hadron Collider) accelerator consists in eight cryogenically independent sectors, each 3.3 km long with a cold mass of 4500 ton cooled at 1.9 K. Each helium cryogenic plant combines an 18 kW at 4.5 K refrigerator and a 2.4 kW at 1.8 K refrigeration unit. Since early operation for physics in November 2009, the availability has been above 90% for more than 260 days per year, ending at 94.8% in 2012 and corresponding to an equivalent availability of more than 99% per independent sector. The operation and support methodology as well as the achieved performance results are presented. Emphasis is given on implementing operational return for short, medium and long term consolidations. Perspective for restart after the first long shutdown of the LHC works will be described.

 


 



THPME035
The Electronic System Design and Realization for First Set 500 MHz KEKB SRF Module High Power Test
3588


 

F.-T. Chung, L.-H. Chang, M.H. Chang, L.J. Chen, M.-C. Lin, Y.-H. Lin, Z.L. Liu, C.H. Lo, M.H. Tsai, Ch. Wang, T.-T. Yang, M.-S. Yeh, T.-C. Yu
                       NSRRC, Hsinchu, Taiwan

 


 

This article reports the home-made electronics circuits for reading the various electronics signals which can be used for site acceptance of superconducting resonant cavity. The adjustment of parameters during 1st SRF high power acceptance can also be used for the update of the 2nd electronics. The modular electronics system will provide the advantages of fast repair, preparing spare parts easily, short install time and flexible adjustment. The hardware whole electronics system is mainly designed by CPLD, PLC and Display meters. The Military Standard connectors are used for signals connection. There are always junction boxes for signal transmission test and convenient signal jumping for ensuring the correct signal source. In safety action, there are Fast Interlock Sum (0-10us) and slow ready chain (50ms-150ms). The complete system realizes the real time monitor and protection of superconducting resonant cavity.

 


 



THPME036
Design and Measurement of the Transfer Line Magnets for the Taiwan Photon Source
3591


 

C.Y. Kuo, C.-H. Chang, H.-H. Chen, Y.L. Chu, J.C. Huang, M.-H. Huang, C.-S. Hwang, J.C. Jan, F.-Y. Lin
                       NSRRC, Hsinchu, Taiwan

 


 

The Taiwan photon source (TPS) transfer line from the linac to the booster (LTB) is made of 1 bending magnet, 11 quadrupoles and the booster to the storage ring (BTS) is include of 2 bending magnets, 7 quadrupoles. LTB bending magnet is provided for 11 degrees defection from the linac to the booster and 31 degrees from the linac to the beam dumper with two operating currents. The BTS quadrupoles are included four 0.3m and three 0.4m magnets which cross sections are the same with booster quadrupole give different integral quadrupole field strengths and cooling systems are redesign from 2 circuits to 4. The magnetic fields were simulated with Opera 2D and 3D; optimum processes are discussed. All of the magnets have been constructed by Danfysik, scanditronix and Gongin. This paper discusses the features, the design concept and the results of field measurements of these transfer line magnets.

 


 



THPME037
Magnetic Field Character of TPS Booster Magnets
3594


 

J.C. Jan, C.-H. Chang, H.-H. Chen, Y.L. Chu, M.-H. Huang, C.-S. Hwang, C.Y. Kuo, F.-Y. Lin, C.S. Yang, Y.T. Yu
                       NSRRC, Hsinchu, Taiwan

 


 

The Taiwan Photon Source (TPS) is a 3-GeV synchrotron radiation facility operated in top-up injection mode. The booster ring of TPS shares the same tunnel, concentric with the storage ring. The lattice of the booster is a 24-cell DBA of circumference 496.8 m. The energy of the electron beam is ramped from 150 MeV to 3 GeV at repetition rate 3 Hz in the booster ring. The trajectory of the electron beam is controlled with complicated combined-function magnets including combined dipole magnet, combined quadrupole magnet, pure quadrupole magnet, sextupole magnet and corrector magnet. The measurement and performance of these magnets are discussed in this letter.

 


 



THPME039
The Control System for the Purification Station at NSRRC
3597


 

T.F. Lin, S.-H. Chang, W.-S. Chiou, F. Z. Hsiao, C.K. Kuan, H.C. Li, C.P. Liu, H.H. Tsai
                       NSRRC, Hsinchu, Taiwan

 


 

A cryogenic adsorber was used liquid nitrogen to trap the impurities from gaseous helium in the helium cryogenic system. NSRRC parallel connected five cryogenic adsorbers for the cryogenic system in the year 2011; five additional cryogenic adsorbers will be installed in the year 2013. The original design of liquid nitrogen filling was motored and controlled manually to keep the efficiency of the purifying. The regeneration of the cryogenic adsorber must be performed manually as well by using heater and vacuum pump after saturated of the cryogenic adsorber. NSRRC develop one control system that is allowed the liquid nitrogen filling and regeneration process turns into automatically. This paper is aimed to present the construction of the control system. The installation and test results will be included in this paper as well.

 


 



THPME040
The Installation and Commissioning of the Helium Cryogenic System for theTPS Project
3600


 

H.H. Tsai, S.-H. Chang, W.-S. Chiou, F. Z. Hsiao, C.K. Kuan, H.C. Li, T.F. Lin, C.P. Liu
                       NSRRC, Hsinchu, Taiwan

 


 

The construction of an electron accelerator with energy 3 GeV is under way for high brilliance and flux X-ray photon source at NSRRC. There will be eventually four superconducting radio frequency (SRF) cavities installed to maintain the electron energy. The helium cryogenic system has been designed and fabricated to provide the required liquid helium for SRF cavities. The cryogenic system consists of the 700-W refrigerator, the 315-kW variant frequency compressor, the oil removal system, the recovery compressor system, the gas helium buffer tanks, and one 7000-L liquid helium Dewar. The overall system installation and commissioning will be presented and discussed in this paper.

 


 



THPME041
Configurable Field Magnets for a Proton Beam Dynamics R&D Ring
3603


 

S.J. Brooks
                       STFC/RAL/ASTeC, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom

 


 

Magnets with many independently-powered coils can provide nearly arbitrary combinations of multipoles up to a certain order. This paper gives examples of field quality in such an "omni-magnet", which is normal-conducting and simulated with Poisson. Since the magnets also have quite large apertures they may be used to make a general-purpose FFAG and synchrotron test ring for beam dynamics studies. This could use the 3MeV H− beam from the RAL proton Front End Test Stand (FETS) and outline ring parameters are given for that situation.

 


 



THPME043
Prototype Adjustable Permanent Magnet Quadrupoles For CLIC
3606


 

B.J.A. Shepherd, J.A. Clarke
                       STFC/DL/ASTeC, Daresbury, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom
A. Bartalesi, M. Modena, M. Struik
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
N.A. Collomb
                       STFC/DL, Daresbury, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom

 


 

The 42km long Drive Beam Decelerator for the Compact Linear Collider (CLIC) requires over 41,000 quadrupole magnets. ASTeC and CERN are investigating the possibility of permanent magnet quadrupoles (PMQs) to reduce running costs and heat load inside the CLIC tunnel. A prototype of a high-strength adjustable PMQ has been built, based on a simple concept using two moving sections each containing a pair of large permanent magnets. The gradient can be adjusted within a range of 15-60 T/m (3-15T integrated gradient). The prototype has undergone extensive magnetic testing at Daresbury Laboratory and CERN, and performs well in line with expectations. A prototype of the low-strength version (0.9-9T) is currently under construction.

 


 



THPME044
Fabrication and Test of a  1 M Long Single-aperture 11 T Nb3Sn Dipole for LHC Upgrades
3609


 

A.V. Zlobin, N. Andreev, G. Apollinari, E.Z. Barzi, R. Bossert, G. Chlachidze, J. DiMarco, A. Nobrega, I. Novitski, D. Turrioni, G. Velev
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA
B. Auchmann, M. Karppinen, L. Rossi, D. Smekens
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Funding: Work is supported by Fermi Research Alliance, LLC, under contract No. DE-AC02-07CH11359 with the U.S. Department of Energy and European Commission under FP7 project HiLumi LHC, GA no.284404
The planned upgrade of the LHC collimation system includes two additional collimators to be installed in the dispersion suppressor areas around points 2, 3 and 7, and high luminosity interaction regions in points 1 and 5. The necessary longitudinal space for the collimators could be provided by replacing some 8.33 T NbTi LHC main dipoles with 11 T dipoles based on Nb3Sn superconductor and compatible with the LHC lattice and main systems. To demonstrate this possibility Fermilab and CERN have started in 2011 a joint R&D program with the goal of building by 2015 a 5.5-m long twin-aperture dipole prototype suitable for installation in the LHC. An important part of the program is the development and test a series of short single-aperture demonstration dipoles with the nominal field of 11 T at the LHC nominal current of ~11.85 kA and ~20% margin. This paper describes the design features and test results of a 1-m long single-aperture Nb3Sn demonstrator dipole for the LHC collimation system upgrade.

 


 



THPME045
TEST RESULTS OF A NB3SN QUADRUPOLE COIL IMPREGNATED WITH RADIATION-RESISTANT MATRIMID 5292
3612


 

A.V. Zlobin, G. Ambrosio, N. Andreev, E.Z. Barzi, R. Bossert, G. Chlachidze, V.V. Kashikhin, S. Krave, A. Nobrega, I. Novitski
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Fermi Research Alliance, LLC, under contract No. DE-AC02-07CH11359 with the U.S. Department of Energy.
FNAL is developing advanced Nb3Sn magnets for present and future accelerators. Insulation is one of the primary elements of magnet design, essential for maintaining its electrical, mechanical and thermal performance. The Nb3Sn magnet fabrication process involves coil reaction at high temperature and then impregnation with epoxy to restore the insulation electrical and mechanical properties. The traditional epoxy offers adequate structural and electrical properties, but has a low radiation strength which limits the lifetime of accelerator magnets operating in severe radiation environments. Studies to replace epoxy as impregnation material for Nb3Sn coils with high radiation-resistant material have started at FNAL ten years ago. The studies concentrated on the Matrimid® 5292, a bismaleimide based material, which has appropriate viscosity and potlife as well as provides excellent mechanical, electrical and thermal coil properties. A 1 m long Nb3Sn quadrupole coil was recently fabricated, impregnated with Matrimid and tested in a quadrupole magnetic mirror at 4.2 and 1.9 K. Coil test results are presented and compared to the results for similar coils impregnated with epoxy.

 


 



THPME046
A Summary of the Quality of the ALS Combined Function Sextupole Magnets
3615


 

N. Li, A. Madur
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA
C. Chen, H.J. Hu, J. Jin, Y.M. Wen, L. Yin, J.D. Zhang, Q.G. Zhou
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by the Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy under DOE contract number DE-AC02-05CH11231.
A total of 51 combined function magnets is required to upgrade the Advanced Light Source (ALS) Storage Ring at LBNL. These magnets will provide 4 types of magnetic fields: sextupole, horizontal and vertical dipoles, and skew quadrupole and will enable an emittance reduction and upgrade of the beam quality in the ALS ring. A relatively new procedure using EDM cut poles after core assembly that was first used by Buckley System Ltd, NZ was adopted during the production of these magnets. Also, a new 3D CAD modeling was used for the coil design. A total of 57 magnets (including prototypes and spare magnets) were built by the Shanghai Institute of Applied Physics (SINAP) in China. These magnets have achieved extraordinarily high pole profile accuracies and exhibit excellent coil performance characteristics: resistances and water flows reached a high degree of consistency. Consequently, the system errors of the magnetic field of these magnets all meet the LBNL specifications. This paper will summarize the mechanical quality and magnetic field properties of these magnets. The interrelationship between the qualities of coil and the magnet field will be described as well.

 


 



THPME047
Progress of the RFQ Accelerator for PXIE
3618


 

D. Li, M.D. Hoff, A.R. Lambert, J.W. Staples, S.P. Virostek
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA
T.H. Luo
                       UMiss, University, Mississippi, USA
S. Nagaitsev, G.V. Romanov, A.V. Shemyakin, R.P. Stanek, J. Steimel
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: This work is supported by the Office of Science, United States Department of Energy under DOE contract DE-AC02-05CH11231.
The proposed Project X Injector Experiment (PXIE) is currently under development at Fermilab. PXIE is an R&D test accelerator that will replicate the front-end portion of Project X. The PXIE accelerator complex consists of a H− ion source(s), low-energy beam transport (LEBT), 162.5 MHz normal conducting CW Radio-Frequency-Quadrupole (RFQ) accelerator, medium-energy beam transport (MEBT), broad-band beam chopper(s) and two superconducting cryomodules. In this paper, we will review and present recent progress of the PXIE RFQ, which will include an overview of the RFQ beam dynamics design, RF structure design, detailed thermal and mechanical analyses, fabrication test results and fabrication plan and schedule.

 


 



THPME048
Assembly and Test of a Modified Spectrometer Solenoid for MICE
3621


 

S.P. Virostek, D. Li, P. Pan, S. Prestemon
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA
R. Preece
                       STFC/RAL, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom

 


 

Funding: This work is supported by the Office of Science, US-DOE under DOE contract DE-AC02-05CH11231.
The MICE superconducting spectrometer solenoids have been modified and rebuilt as a result of the testing done in 2008, 2009 and 2010. The number of two-stage cryocoolers was increased from three in 2009 to five in the modified magnet. The new shield for the spectrometer solenoid is fabricated primarily from 1100-O aluminum instead of 6061-T6 aluminum used in the former versions of the magnet. The thermal connection between the shield and the first-stage of the cold heads has been improved to reduce the temperature drop between the shield and the coolers. As a result of these changes, the first-stage temperatures for the coolers are below 45K, which resulted in an increase in the refrigeration generated by the cooler second stages. The quench protection system has been altered in order to provide additional protection to the magnet in the event of a lead failure between the magnet power supply and the magnet coils. The quality of the shield and cold mass MLI wrap has also been improved. Details of the modifications and test results demonstrating improved magnet performance are presented in this paper.

 


 



THPME052
Analysis of the NSLS-II Magnet Measurement Data
3624


 

W. Guo, A.K. Jain, S.K. Sharma, J. Skaritka, C.J. Spataro
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by U.S. DOE, Contract No. DE-AC02-98CH10886
NSLS-II is a third generation 3GeV light source that is under-construction at the Brookhaven National Laboratory. The 30-DBA-cell storage ring will provide micron size beam resulting from the 1nm emittance. Recently the last magnet was received and the completion of girder installation in the tunnel is foreseeable in a few months. In this paper we will briefly review the physics considerations for the magnet specifications, the major field quality related issues that arose during the fabrication process. Our emphasis will be on the statistical analysis of the magnet measurement results and comparison with the design tolerances.

 


 




