













IPAC2013 - Table of Session: THOBB1 (Contributed Oral Presentations (Beam Dynamics and Electromagnetic Fields))


THOBB1 —  Contributed Oral Presentations (Beam Dynamics and Electromagnetic Fields)   (16-May-13   11:30—12:30)
Chair: A. Chao, SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA


Paper
Title
Page



THOBB101
Transverse-to-longitudinal Emittance Exchange at the Fermilab Advanced Superconducting Test Accelerator
3103


 

C.R. Prokop, P. Piot
                       Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, Illinois, USA
B.E. Carlsten
                       LANL, Los Alamos, New Mexico, USA
M.D. Church, P. Piot
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: LANL LDRD program, project 20110067DR U.S. DoE under Contract No. DE-FG02-08ER41532 with Northern Illinois University and under Contract No. DE-AC02-07CH11359 the Fermi Research Alliance, LLC.
Earlier experiments at Fermilab’s A0 Photoinjector Laboratory demonstrated successful transverse-to-longitudinal emittance exchange (EEX) using a transverse-deflecting cavity (TDC) located between two identical doglegs. Such a design has the disadvantage of transversely displacing the beam. An interesting alternative is an EEX beamline designed out of a variable R56 bunch compressor chicane. In this paper, we present design and simulation testing for a chicane-based EEX for eventual implementation at Fermilab’s Advanced Superconducting Test Accelerator. We explore several advanced EEX concepts, including bunch current profile shaping, bunch compression, and dispersion-boosting to relax the requirements on TDC power and cooling.

 






Slides THOBB101 [2.582 MB]
            
 


 



THOBB102
Beam Coupling Impedance Localization Technique Validation and Measurements in the CERN Machines
3106


 

N. Biancacci, G. Arduini, T. Argyropoulos, H. Bartosik, R. Calaga, K. Cornelis, S.S. Gilardoni, N. Mounet, E. Métral, Y. Papaphilippou, S. Persichelli, G. Rumolo, B. Salvant, G. Sterbini, R. Tomás, R. Wasef
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
M. Migliorati, L. Palumbo
                       URLS, Rome, Italy

 


 

The beam coupling impedance could lead to limitations in beam brightness and quality, and therefore it needs accurate quantification and continuous monitoring in order to detect and mitigate high impedance sources. In the CERN machines, for example, kickers and collimators are expected to be the main contributors to the total imaginary part of the transverse impedance. In order to detect the other sources, a beam based measurement was developed: from the variation of betatron phase beating with intensity, it is possible to detect the locations of main impedance sources. In this work we present the application of the method with beam measurements in the CERN PS, SPS and LHC.

 






Slides THOBB102 [7.224 MB]
            
 


 



THOBB103
THz Electron-pulse-train Dynamics in a MeV Photo-injector
3109


 

F.H. Chao, C.H. Chen, Y.-C. Huang
                       NTHU, Hsinchu, Taiwan
P.J. Chou
                       NSRRC, Hsinchu, Taiwan

 


 

A conventional free electron laser (FEL) is bulky and expensive. In order to quickly build up the FEL power in a short undulator, a laser technology has been proposed to generate a pre-bunched electron pulse-train with a THz bunching frequency from a photoinjector*. The bunching factor** of an accelerated pulse-train beam is influenced by the beam radius, initial bunching frequency, space charge force, acceleration gradient, and acceleration phase in an accelerator. For a given RF accelerator and initial beam parameters, there is a limitation on the maximally attainable bunching factor and bunching frequency for the accelerated pulse-train beam. This paper presents a theoretical analysis for the bunching factor and bunching frequency of an accelerated pulse-train beam subject to nominal initial beam conditions in a photoinjector. The theoretical analysis is compared with the simulation results from the simulation code, PARMELA. To obtain an output bunching factor larger than 0.5%, our simulation study indicates that the maximum bunching frequency at the cathode is 25 THz for a 150 A beam current under a peak acceleration field of 80 MV/m.
* Y.C. Huang, C.H. Chen, A.P. Lee, W.K. Lau, S.G. Liu, NIM, A, 637, S1–S6 (2011). ** Y.C Huang, Appl. Phys. Lett., 96, 231503 (2010).

 






Slides THOBB103 [3.076 MB]
            
 


 




