













IPAC2013 - Table of Session: THOAB1 (Contributed Oral Presentations (Beam Instrumentation and Feedback))


THOAB1 —  Contributed Oral Presentations (Beam Instrumentation and Feedback)   (16-May-13   09:30—10:30)
Chair: G.-H. Luo, NSRRC, Hsinchu, Taiwan


Paper
Title
Page



THOAB101
Laser Wire Based Parallel Profile Scan of H− Beam at the Superconducting Linac of Spallation Neutron Source
3090


 

Y. Liu, A.V. Aleksandrov, D.L. Brown, R. Dickson, C. Huang, C.D. Long
                       ORNL, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA
C.C. Peters
                       ORNL RAD, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA

 


 

Funding: ORNL/SNS is managed by UT-Battelle, LLC, for the U.S. Department of Energy under contract DE-AC05-00OR22725.
We report on the world’s first experiment of a parallel profile scan of the hydrogen ion (H−) beam using a laser wire system. The system was developed at the superconducting linac (SCL) of the Spallation Neutron Source (SNS) accelerator complex. The laser wire profile scanner is based on a photo-detachment process and therefore can be conducted on an operational H− beam in a nonintrusive manner. The parallel profile scanning system makes it possible to simultaneously measure profiles of the 1-MW neutron production H− beam at 9 different locations (corresponding to energy levels of 400 – 950 MeV) of the superconducting linac using a single light source. The entire measurement process takes less than 5 minutes to complete. Together with the hardware modification, we have also upgraded our user interface to visualize the 9-pairs of H− beam profiles in a real-time fashion, which presents a highly intuitive and informative picture of the H− beam propagation along the acceleration path. The laser wire based parallel profile scanning system provides a powerful tool for accelerator operators and physicists to study the SCL modelling, monitor and/or tune the beam parameters.

 






Slides THOAB101 [2.277 MB]
            
 


 



THOAB102
A Pepper-pot Based Device for Diagnostics of the Single-shot Beam
3093


 

S.X. Peng, J. Chen, J.E. Chen, Z.Y. Guo, P.N. Lu, H.T. Ren, Z.H. Wang, Y. Xu, Z.X. Yuan, T. Zhang, J. Zhao
                       PKU, Beijing, People's Republic of China
A.L. Zhang
                       Graduate University, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, People's Republic of China
J. Zhao
                       State Key Laboratory of Nuclear Physics and Technology, Beijing, Haidian District, People's Republic of China

 


 

Generally the beam emittance can be measured by different Emittance Measurement Units (EMUs), such as the pepper-pot device, the slit-wire type facility and the Allison scanner. However, for a microsecond single-shot ion beam, the pepper-pot device is a suitable choice because of its cut-off single-shot technique without any time-consuming step. A pepper-pot based beam current & profile measurement device, which is a combination of Faraday cup technique and pepper-pot measurement facility, was developed at PKU. It consists of a main Faraday cup with a pepper-pot mask at its bottom, and a Faraday cup array locating 3 mm away from the pepper-pot mask. This device has been tested at the PKU LEBT test bench and the measurement results are consistent with the results acquired by the Allison scanner. By replacing the Faraday cup array with a fluorescent screen and a CCD camera, this device becomes a facility that not only has the ability to measure the total beam current and the beam profile, but also has the capability to measure the beam emittance for CW or pulsed ion beams. Details will be presented in this paper.

 






Slides THOAB102 [5.332 MB]
            
 


 



THOAB103
Phase Space Tomography Research at Daresbury
3096


 

K.M. Hock, D.J. Holder, M.G. Ibison, B.D. Muratori, A. Wolski
                       Cockcroft Institute, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom

 


 

We report on the progress of phase space tomography research at Daresbury. The efforts over the past three years have been focussed on measuring the electron beam at the ALICE tomography section. Based on this result, we have developed techniques for improving resolution using normalised phase space, removing streaking artefacts by thresholding, demonstrating reliability of reconstructed phase space. We have developed in-house reconstruction codes using both the Filtered Back Projection and the Maximum Entropy Techniques. We are currently using a combination of simulation and measurements to investigate the onset of space charge effects at low bunch charges over short distances.

 






Slides THOAB103 [0.878 MB]
            
 


 




