














IPAC2022 - Table of Session: THOXSP (Contributed Orals: Photon Sources and Electron Accelerators)


THOXSP —  Contributed Orals: Photon Sources and Electron Accelerators   (16-Jun-22   09:30—10:30)
Chair: K. Soutome, RIKEN SPring-8 Center, Hyogo, Japan


Paper
Title
Page



THOXSP1
Low-Alpha Storage Ring Design for Steady-State Microbunching to Generate EUV Radiation
 


 

Z. Pan, X.J. Deng, W.-H. Huang, C.-X. Tang, Y. Zhang
                       TUB, Beijing, People’s Republic of China
A. Chao
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA
W. Wan
                       ShanghaiTech University, Shanghai, People’s Republic of China

 


 

A new concept is proposed for minimizing the longitudinal emittance of a low momentum compaction factor (low-alpha) storage ring which has the capability to stably store sub-femtosecond electron bunches for the first time. This storage ring is designed for Steady-State microbunching (SSMB) to generate kW level average power EUV radiation. The proposed design approach can be applied to any quasi-isochronous storage rings to yield very high radiation power due to longitudinal coherence of the radiation. We obtain an optimal lattice design by minimizing global and local momentum compaction factors simultaneously and the result of single-particle tracking shows that the electron beam with equilibrium rms bunch length of about 40 nm can be stored in this ring.

 






Slides THOXSP1 [3.750 MB]
        
 


Cite •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



THOXSP2
Brixsino High-Flux Dual X-Ray and THz Radiation Source Based on Energy Recovery Linacs
2407


 

I. Drebot, F. Canella, S. Cialdi, M. Giammarchi, D. Giannotti, S. Latorre, C. Meroni, M. Rossetti Conti, A.R. Rossi, M. Ruijter, S. Samsam, L. Serafini, V. Torri
                       INFN-Milano, Milano, Italy
M.P. Abbracchio, S. Altilia, B. Paroli, A. Vanzulli
                       Universita’ degli Studi di Milano, Milano, Italy
A. Andreone, G.P. Papari
                       Naples University Federico II, Napoli, Italy
A. Bacci, M. Bertucci, A. Bosotti, F. Broggi, D. Giove, P. Michelato, L. Monaco, R. Paparella, L. Rossi, D. Sertore, M. Statera
                       INFN/LASA, Segrate (MI), Italy
R. Calandrino, A. Delvecchio
                       HSP, Milan, Italy
S. Capra, D. Cipriani, C. Lenardi, M. Opromolla, E. Suerra, A. Torresin
                       Università degli Studi di Milano, Milano, Italy
P. Cardarelli, G. Paternò, A. Taibi
                       INFN-Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy
M. Citterio
                       Universita’ degli Studi di Milano e INFN, Milano, Italy
A. Esposito
                       LNF-INFN, Frascati, Italy
R. Ferragut, G. Galzerano
                       POLIMI, Milano, Italy
C. Koral, M.R. Masullo, A. Passarelli
                       INFN-Napoli, Napoli, Italy
Z. Mazaheri, G. Mettivier, P. Russo
                       UniNa, Napoli, Italy
C. Pagani
                       Università degli Studi di Milano & INFN, Segrate, Italy
P. Paparo
                       CNR-ISASI, Pozzuoi, Italy
V. Petrillo, F. Prelz, M. Sorbi
                       Universita’ degli Studi di Milano & INFN, Milano, Italy
B. Piccirillo, A. Rubano
                       Naples University Federico II and INFN, Napoli, Italy
E. Puppin
                       Politecnico/Milano, Milano, Italy

 


 

We present the conceptual design of a compact light source named BriXSinO. BriXSinO was born as demonstrator of the Marix project, but it is also a dual high flux radiation source Inverse Compton Source (ICS) of X-ray and Free-Electron Laser of THz spectral range radiation conceived for medical applications and general applied research. The accelerator is a push-pull CW-SC Energy Recovery Linac (ERL) based on superconducting cavities technology and allows to sustain MW-class beam power with almost just one hundred kW active power dissipation/consumption. ICS line produces 33 keV monochromatic X-Rays via Compton scattering of the electron beam with a laser system in Fabry-Pérot cavity at a repetition rate of 100 MHz. The THz FEL oscillator is based on an undulator imbedded in optical cavity and generates THz wavelengths from 15 to 50 micron.

 






Slides THOXSP2 [19.118 MB]
        
 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ https://doi.org/10.18429/JACoW-IPAC2022-THOXSP2

 


About •
Received ※ 08 June 2022 — Revised ※ 12 June 2022 — Accepted ※ 15 June 2022 — Issue date ※ 16 June 2022


Cite •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



THOXSP3
Path to High Repetition Rate Seeding: Combining High Gain Harmonic Generation with an Optical Klystron
2411


 

G. Paraskaki, E. Ferrari, L. Schaper, E. Schneidmiller
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany
E. Allaria
                       Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A., Basovizza, Italy
W. Hillert
                       University of Hamburg, Institut für Experimentalphysik, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

External seeding in combination with harmonic generation has become a hot topic in the field of high gain free-electron lasers (FELs) since it allows delivery of superior FEL radiation characterized by, for example, full coherence and unprecedented shot-to-shot stability. At low repetition rate machines operating at few 10 Hz, novel experiments have been realized already, however, at superconducting machines, current laser technology does not support exploiting the full repetition rate available. One way to overcome this problem is to reduce the requirements in seed laser power: here, an optical klystron based high gain harmonic generation (HGHG) setup is proposed to reduce the laser peak power requirements by orders of magnitude, enabling operation at drastically increased repetition rates. We report simulation results based on the seeded beamline concept of the FLASH2020+ project. Among other topics, the effect of a linear electron beam energy chirp on this setup will be discussed.

 






Slides THOXSP3 [1.502 MB]
        
 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ https://doi.org/10.18429/JACoW-IPAC2022-THOXSP3

 


About •
Received ※ 08 June 2022 — Revised ※ 14 June 2022 — Accepted ※ 16 June 2022 — Issue date ※ 27 June 2022


Cite •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




