













IPAC2013 - Table of Session: WEOAB1 (Contributed Oral Presentations (Beam Dynamics and Electromagnetic Fields)))


WEOAB1 —  Contributed Oral Presentations (Beam Dynamics and Electromagnetic Fields))   (15-May-13   09:30—10:30)
Chair: M.J. Boland, ASCo, Clayton, Victoria, Australia


Paper
Title
Page



WEOAB101
Single Particle Tracking for Simultaneous Long and Short Electron Bunches in the BESSY II Storage Ring
2038


 

M. Ruprecht, A. Jankowiak, A. Neumann, M. Ries, G. Wüstefeld
                       HZB, Berlin, Germany
T. Weis
                       DELTA, Dortmund, Germany

 


 

A scheme where 1.5 ps and 15 ps long bunches (rms) can be stored simultaneously in the BESSY II storage ring has recently been proposed (BESSYVSR*). This paper presents simulations of single particle beam dynamics influenced by superconducting cavities used for the strong longitudinal beam focusing. The effect of RF jitter on (very short) bunches is investigated and results are discussed. Furthermore, possible effects on beam dynamics during ramp up and ramp down of the high gradient fields in the cavities are studied. The primary goal is to reveal preliminary design specifications for RF jitter on the basis of single particle dynamics.
* G. Wüstefeld, A. Jankowiak, J. Knobloch, M. Ries, Simultaneous Long and Short Electron Bunches in the BESSY II Storage Ring, Proceedings of IPAC2011, San Sebastián, Spain

 






Slides WEOAB101 [3.955 MB]
            
 


 



WEOAB102
CSR-driven Longitudinal Single Bunch Instability Thresholds
2041


 

P. Kuske
                       BESSY GmbH, Berlin, Germany

 


 

According to Bane, et al.* threshold currents should follow a quite simple scaling law. More detailed theoretical results for the underlying shielded CSR-interaction have been performed for BESSY-II and the MLS and will be presented in comparison with observations at these storage rings. It is found that there are parameter regions where the instability is weak and thus thresholds depend on damping time and synchrotron tune. Theoretical findings are in surprisingly good agreement with most of the observed instability features.
* K.L. Bane, et al., Phys. Rev. ST-AB 13, 104402 (2010)

 






Slides WEOAB102 [0.779 MB]
            
 


 



WEOAB103
Experimental Observations of a Multi-stream Instability in a Long Intense Beam
2044


 

B.L. Beaudoin, S. Bernal, I. Haber, R.A. Kishek, T.W. Koeth
                       UMD, College Park, Maryland, USA

 


 

Funding: Supported by the US Dept. of Energy, Office of High Energy Physics, and by the US Dept. of Defense, Office of Naval Research and the Joint Technology Office.
We have observed evidence of a multi-stream instability in a long non-relativistic space-charge dominated beam evolving with an initial non-linear distribution and zero external longitudinal containment. This type of instability can be detrimental to intense accelerators that propagate rectangular distributions, such as in a ring with single or multi-bunch injection. The longitudinal forces in these intense bunches causes the beam to expand axially; in the case of the University of Maryland Electron Ring (UMER), the initial long bunch is injected to fill a fraction of the ring, coasting beyond the point where the head and tail overlap. Adjacent filaments at that point are separated in velocity space by 2cs and approach a separation of cs. The onset of the instability has been observed to depend on the injected beam current, bunch length, and other experimental factors. Comparisons with simple analytical calculations and PIC simulations have shown good agreement in the time to onset.

 






Slides WEOAB103 [1.681 MB]
            
 


 




