













IPAC2017 - Table of Session: MOZA (Invited Oral Presentations, Beam Dynamics and Electromagentic Fields)


MOZA —  Invited Oral Presentations, Beam Dynamics and Electromagentic Fields   (15-May-17   14:00—15:00)
Chair: S. Guiducci, INFN/LNF, Frascati (Roma), Italy


Paper
Title
Page



MOZA1
Electron Cloud Effects at the LHC and LHC Injectors
30


 

G. Rumolo, H. Bartosik, E. Belli, P. Dijkstal, G. Iadarola, K.S.B. Li, L. Mether, A. Romano, M. Schenk, F. Zimmermann
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
E. Belli
                       University of Rome La Sapienza, Rome, Italy
P. Dijkstal
                       TU Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany
M. Schenk
                       EPFL, Lausanne, Switzerland

 


 

Electron cloud effects are one of the main limitations of the performance of the LHC and its injectors. Enormous progress has been done in the simulation of the electron cloud build-up and of the effects on beam stability while mitigation measures have been identified and implemented (scrubbing, low secondary electron yield coatings, etc.). The above has allowed reaching nominal beam parameters in the LHC during Run 2. A review of the studies and results obtained and the strategy and expected performance for the High Luminosity operation of the LHC will be presented.

 






Slides MOZA1 [12.855 MB]
        
 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ https://doi.org/10.18429/JACoW-IPAC2017-MOZA1

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



MOZA2
Beams by Design and FEL Seeding
 


 

E. Hemsing
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

In a modern light source, the ability to carefully manipulate the electron beam longitudinal phase space enables detailed control of the resulting radiation pulse. This talk will describe techniques to tailor the electron beam distribution for seeding of an FEL including experimental demonstrations at NLCTA, FLASH, Shanghai, and FERMI. Recent results include measurements of the Echo (EEHG) technique to generate the 75th harmonic.

 






Slides MOZA2 [8.739 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




