













IPAC2013 - Table of Session: MOPEA (Poster Session)


MOPEA —  Poster Session   (13-May-13   16:00—18:00)



Paper
Title
Page



MOPEA001
Status of the Australian Synchrotron Top-Up Operations
58


 

M.J. Boland, R.T. Dowd, G. LeBlanc, D.C. McGilvery, D. Morris, Y.E. Tan, J. Trewhella, D. Zhu, E.D. van Garderen
                       ASCo, Clayton, Victoria, Australia

 


 

In May 2012 the Australian Synchrotron commenced Top-Up Operations for User beamtime. The facility was designed for top-up from the start with a full energy 3 GeV injection system, however top-up only became a priority once the beamline user community had established itself at the new facility in operation since April 2007. New beam diagnostic and equipment protections systems were implemented as part of the move to top-up, including a new injection efficiency monitoring system. The effect of top-up on the beamline data was also tested with each beamline prior to engaging top-up during user runs. Top-up has now been running successfully for one year and the performance statistics from this period will be presented. Top-up operations is a very popular standard mode for user beam and falling into decay mode is now treated almost as a beam dump.

 


 



MOPEA002
1.5 GeV Low Energy Mode for the Australian Synchrotron
61


 

R. Clarken, M.J. Boland, Y.E. Tan
                       ASCo, Clayton, Victoria, Australia
J.S. Hughes, K.P. Wootton
                       The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia

 


 

The Australian Synchrotron injection system and storage ring have been retuned to 1.5 GeV for use in special operations and machine development modes. The systems were designed for 3 GeV user operations but for certain research a lower energy of 1.5 GeV is advantageous. A description of how the new low energy mode was achieved is given, including extraction on the fly from the booster synchrotron and scaling of the storage ring lattice.

 


 



MOPEA003
Status and Very First Commissioning of the ASTRID2 Synchrotron Light Source
64


 

S.P. Møller, N. Hertel, J.S. Nielsen
                       ISA, Aarhus, Denmark

 


 

ASTRID2 is the new 10 nm UV and soft x-ray light source at Aarhus University. It will replace the ageing source ASTRID, which will be used as the full-energy (580 MeV) booster for ASTRID2. An upgrade of the beamlines at ASTRID are presentlytaking place before being transferred to ASTRID2 until the end of 2013. In addition new beamlines and insertion devices are being procured. Presently, ASTRID2 commissioning is alternating with ASTRID operation to continue during 2013. Status in spring 2013 includes operation of most sub-systems resulting in top-up mode operation to 150 mA. The lattice have been qualifies although a re-alignment is planned. The poster will present experiences from the first commissioning and give the status of the project.

 


 



MOPEA004
Beam Lifetime in the ASTRID and ASTRID2 Synchrotron Light Sources: Excitations and Vacuum Dependences
67


 

J.S. Nielsen, N. Hertel, S.P. Møller
                       ISA, Aarhus, Denmark

 


 

The beam lifetime is a very important parameter for synchrotron light sources without top-up, and sometimes more important than the lowest possible vertical beam emittance. At the ASTRID synchrotron light source, we have for many years routinely applied a phase modulation of the accelerating RF field, together with a vertical excitation of the beam at the first vertical betatron frequency. These two effects increase the beam lifetime from about 3 hours to more than 100 hours at 150 mA. Lifetime measurements as function of modulation and excitation parameters will be presented. Additionally, measurements of the beam lifetime in ASTRID and ASTRID2 as function of vacuum pressure will be presented.

 


 



MOPEA005
A Linear Beam Raster System for the European Spallation Source?
70


 

H.D. Thomsen, A.I.S. Holm, S.P. Møller
                       ISA, Aarhus, Denmark

 


 

The European Spallation Source (ESS) will, when built, be the most intense neutron source in the world. The neutrons are generated by a high power (5 MW) proton beam impacting a rotating W spallation target. To reduce the replacement frequency of components subjected to the full beam current, i.e. the proton beam window and the target, means to introduce low peak current densities, i.e. flat transverse beam profiles, are necessary. The relatively long beam pulse duration of 2.86 ms (at 14 Hz) leaves ample time to facilitate a Lissajous-like, linear raster system that illuminates a footprint area by sweeping an only moderately enlarged LINAC beamlet. Although slightly more technically challenging, this method has many advantages over the previously envisaged beam expander system based on non-linear DC magnets. The design, specifications, performance, and benefits of the beam raster system will be described and discussed.

 


 



MOPEA006
Operation and Performance Upgrade of the SOLEIL Storage Ring
73


 

A. Nadji, F. Bouvet, P. Brunelle, A. Buteau, L. Cassinari, M.-E. Couprie, N. Hubert, M. Labat, J.-F. Lamarre, P. Lebasque, A. Lestrade, A. Loulergue, P. Marchand, J.L. Marlats, L.S. Nadolski, R. Nagaoka, M.-A. Tordeux
                       SOLEIL, Gif-sur-Yvette, France

 


 

SOLEIL delivers photons to 26 beamlines and 3 new ones are under construction together with the femtoslicing project. Up to 5 filling patterns are available for the users including a low alpha mode; all of them are in Top-up injection. The beam current for the users has been increased to 430 mA in the multibunch mode. The Storage Ring (SR) is running with a new optics incorporating an additional quadrupole triplet in one long straight section. The beam position stability remains excellent. Vertical positions from the dipole X-BPMs have been included in the orbit feedbacks loop with very encouraging results. A feedback loop maintaining the emittance coupling close to 1% for any Insertion Devices (IDs) configuration has been implemented. Up to 25 very diverse IDs are now installed on the SR, and several others are under design or construction. In house developments are being carried out in several domains such as construction of SR dipole power supply spare and of 70 kW-500 MHz solid state amplifiers, design of a pulsed multipole magnet for injection, and a Robinson wiggler, as well as a feasibility study of a local reduction of the emittance in one of the long straight sections.

 


 



MOPEA007
Study of Lower Emittance Optics Using Multi-Bend-Achromat Lattice at SOLEIL
76


 

R. Nagaoka, P. Brunelle, X. Gavaldà, M. Klein, A. Loulergue, A. Nadji, L.S. Nadolski, M.-A. Tordeux
                       SOLEIL, Gif-sur-Yvette, France

 


 

In the framework of a future upgrade of the SOLEIL 354 m long and 2.75 GeV storage ring, a series of lattice studies has been launched to aim at reducing by an order of magnitude the current 4 nm.rad horizontal emittance. In this exercise, the main constraint imposed is to leave all the existing 24 straight sections for insertion devices untouched. In the previous study (presented at IPAC 2012), the possibility of using superbends and exploiting their longitudinal dipole field variation was pursued in lowering the emittance, finding solutions with a horizontal emittance in the sub nanometer range. In the present study, the use of MBA (Multi-Bend-Achromat) lattice is explored, which is widely recognized today as the optimal lattice in reaching an ultra-low emittance. The study aims to clarify the adaptability of the MBA and the range of attainable emittance for the SOLEIL ring, in view particularly of the short straight sections existing in half of the original DBA cells in between the dipoles. The possibility of combining the previously obtained superbend solutions with the MBA lattice is also examined.

 


 



MOPEA008
A Low-Emittance Lattice for the ESRF
79


 

L. Farvacque, N. Carmignani, J. Chavanne, A. Franchi, G. Le Bec, S.M. Liuzzo, B. Nash, T.P. Perron, P. Raimondi
                       ESRF, Grenoble, France

 


 

In the framework of its upgrade, the ESRF is looking at a new lattice for replacing the present Double Bend Achromat structure. This new lattice must have the same length and periodicity as the present one and keep the beamline source points unchanged. We will describe our design of an 844 m long lattice based on a 7-bend achromat. It is optimized for minimising the operation costs, in particular the wall-plug power, provides a large dynamic aperture allowing off-axis injection with the present ESRF injector, and gives an horizontal emittance of less than 200 pm at 6 GeV, thus considerably improving the brilliance and transverse coherence of the ESRF.

 


 



MOPEA009
ESRF Operation and Upgrade Status
82


 

J.-L. Revol, J.C. Biasci, J-F. B. Bouteille, F. Ewald, L. Farvacque, A. Franchi, G. Gautier, L. Goirand, M. Hahn, L. Hardy, J. Jacob, J.M. Koch, M.L. Langlois, G. Lebec, J.M. Mercier, T.P. Perron, E. Plouviez, P. Raimondi, K.B. Scheidt, V. Serrière
                       ESRF, Grenoble, France

 


 

The European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF) is presently midway through the Upgrade Programme Phase I (2009-2015), which concerns its infrastructure, beamlines and X-ray source. This paper reports on the present operation performance of the source, highlighting the more recent developments. In this context, 8 insertion device straight sections have been lengthened from five to six metres; two of them operating with canted undulators. The lattice of one cell has been modified for a further increase to 7 metres allowing the test of a mini beta optics and latter the distribution of cavities. A second cryogenic permanent magnet undulator has been completed, which gives a factor of more than 2 in flux at high energy. The booster klystron-based radio frequency transmitter has been replaced by high power solid state amplifiers. Out of three prototypes of HOM damped cavities working at room temperature which have been received and tested, one has been successfully commissioned with beam. Subsequent to the upgrade of the beam position monitor system, a new orbit feedback has substantially reduced the orbit distortion induced by ID gap motions.

 


 



MOPEA010
Transfer of RIB’s between ISOL Target and Experiment Hall at SPIRAL 2
85


 

F.R. Osswald, T. Adam, E. Bouquerel, D. Boutin, A. Dinkov, M. Rousseau, A. Sellam
                       IPHC, Strasbourg Cedex 2, France
N.Yu. Kazarinov
                       JINR, Dubna, Moscow Region, Russia
H. Weick, M. Winkler
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

Funding: The authors would like to acknowledge the German-French and Russian-French agreements enabling the allocation of resources : IN2P3 - GSI (id. 12-69), and IN2P3 - JINR (id. 11-88) collaborations.
The production of intense radioactive beams requires a high power target, an efficient beam selection and transport, safe operations and a reliable-cost effective facility. The SPIRAL 2 project a so called second generation RIB facility is under construction at GANIL. The low energy RIB’s will be produced by neutron induced fissions obtained from a 40 MeV primary beam (deutons) and a graphit convertor. Several issues must be addressed in order to insure the safety rules and ultimately the performances requested by the scientific programme. Among them, the space charge dominated regime during the extraction of the beam after the target and the ion source, the compromise between beam transmission, rejection of the light-ion beam, and management of the main safety features. Most of the investigations currently in progress are devoted to the nuclear engineering, the maintenance and the multi-scale integration of the segmented beam line with the infrastructure.
* RIB dynamics of the SPIRAL 2 Transfer Line, HIAT 2012  ** Simulation of Hollow Beam formation at SPIRAL 2, IPAC 2011 *** A Secondary Radioactive Beam Line Section for SPIRAL 2, HIAT 2009

 


 



MOPEA012
Lifetime Studies at Metrology Light Source and ANKA
88


 

T. Goetsch, J. Feikes, M. Ries, G. Wüstefeld
                       HZB, Berlin, Germany
A.-S. Müller
                       KIT, Karlsruhe, Germany

 


 

The Metrology Light Source (MLS)*, situated in Berlin (Germany) is an electron storage ring operating from 105 MeV to 630 MeV and is serving as the national primary radiation source standard from the near infrared to the vacuum ultraviolet spectral region. In its standard user mode, the lifetime is dominated by the Touschek effect. Measurements and analysis of the Touschek lifetime as a function of beam current and RF-Voltage will be presented and compared to measurements done at the ANKA electron storage ring (Karlsruhe, Germany) which operates at 0.5 to 2.5 GeV**.
* R. Klein et al., Phys. Rev. ST-AB 11, 110701 (2008)  ** A.-S. Müller et al., Energy Calibration Of The ANKA Storage Ring, In Proceedings of EPAC 2004 

 


 



MOPEA013
Radioactive Beam Accumulation for a Storage Ring Experiment with an Internal Target
91


 

F. Nolden, C. Dimopoulou, R. Grisenti, C.M. Kleffner, S.A. Litvinov, W. Maier, C. Peschke, P. Petri, U. Popp, M. Steck, H. Weick, D.F.A. Winters, T. Ziglasch
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

A radioactive 56Ni beam was successfully accumulated for an experiment with an internal hydrogen target at the storage ring ESR of GSI, Germany. The radioactive beam was produced and separated at the GSI fragment separator from a stable 58Ni beam. About 6·104 56Ni ions were injected into the ESR on a high relative momentum orbit. The beam was subjected to stochastic cooling, bunched and transported to a low relative momentum orbit where it was neither disturbed by the field of the partial aperture injection kicker nor by the fields of the stochastic cooling kickers. Slightly below this deposition momentum, the beam was accumulated and continuously cooled by means of electron cooling. For each experiment with internal hydrogen target, about 80 shots were injected consecutively, leading to a stored beam of roughly 5·106 particles.

 


 



MOPEA014
Temporal and Spectral Observation of Laser-induced THz Radiation at DELTA
94


 

P. Ungelenk, H. Huck, M. Huck, M. Höner, S. Khan, R. Molo, A. Schick
                       DELTA, Dortmund, Germany
N. Hiller, V. Judin
                       KIT, Karlsruhe, Germany

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the DFG, the BMBF, the Federal State NRW, the Initiative and Networking Fund of the Helmholtz Association, and the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research.
Coherent THz pulses caused by a laser-induced density modulation of the electron bunches are routinely produced and observed at DELTA, a 1.5 GeV synchrotron light source operated by the TU Dortmund University. New measurements performed with a fast hot-electron bolometer allow insight into the turn-by-turn evolution of these pulses. Furthermore, first results from a Fourier transform infrared spectrometer, which is currently under commissioning, are presented.

 


 



MOPEA015
A Transverse Electron Target for Heavy Ion Storage Rings
97


 

S. Geyer, O. Meusel, D. Ries
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany
O.K. Kester
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

A transverse electron target is a well suited concept under discussion for storage rings to investigate electron-ion interaction processes relevant for heavy ion accelerators. Using a sheet beam of free electrons in crossed beam geometry promises not only a high energy resolution but also allows access to the interaction region for photon and electron spectroscopy under large solid angles. To realize a compact and multi-purpose applicable design, only electrostatic fields are used for beam focussing. The produced electron beam has a length of 10cm in ion beam direction and a width of around 5mm in the interaction region with densities of ~109electrons/cm3. The target geometry allows the independent adjustment of the electron beam current and energy in the region of several 10eV and a few keV. The setup meets the high requirements for an operation in the UHV environment of a storage ring and is installed applying the so-called animated beam technique. The electron target is dedicated to the FAIR storage rings. First measurements have been performed at a test bench. An overview of the project status will be presented including first results of the characterization measurements.

 


 



MOPEA016
The Main Stochastic Cooling System of the HESR
100


 

R. Stassen, R. Greven, R. Maier, G. Schug, H. Stockhorst
                       FZJ, Jülich, Germany

 


 

The main stochastic cooling system of the High-Energy Storage Ring HESR (1.5-15 GeV/c) for antiprotons at the FAIR complex (Facility for Antiprotons and Ion Research) in Darmstadt (GSI) will work in the frequency range of 2 - 4 GHz. The design work on pickup and kicker is now finished and the production of the first cooling tank has been started. The whole system layout will be presented taking into account new additional requirements concerning the accumulation and the cooling of heavy ions. All beam-coupling structures are nearly identical and contain several ring-slot blocks. These blocks consist of eight wall-current monitors coupled out by eight electrodes each. Most of the signal combining and splitting take place within the vacuum envelope to reduce the number of vacuum RF feed throughs. The long-distance transmission of the signals and the filters containing long signal delays work with near infrared optical elements.

 


 



MOPEA017
Electron Cooling of Heavy Ions Interacting with Internal Target at HESR of FAIR
103


 

T. Katayama, M. Steck
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
R. Maier, D. Prasuhn, H. Stockhorst
                       FZJ, Jülich, Germany

 


 

The High Energy Storage Ring (HESR) is designed and optimized to accumulate and store the anti-proton beam for the internal target experiment. The recent demand of atomic physics has impacted to use the HESR facility also as the storage ring of bare heavy ions. In this concept the bare heavy ions are injected at 740 MeV/u from the Collector Ring where the ions are well stochastically cooled to be matched with HESR ring acceptance. In the HESR the 2 MeV electron cooler is prepared with the maximal electron current of 3 A and the cooling length of 2.7 m. The electron cooling process of typically 238U92+ beam is simulated for the Hydogen and Xe internal target with simultaneous use of barrier voltage to compensate the mean energy loss caused by the interaction with internal target. In the present report the detailed simulation results of 6D phase space obtained by the particle tracking code are precisely discussed.

 


 



MOPEA018
Feasibility Study of Heavy Ion Storage and Acceleration in the HESR  with Stochastic Cooling and Internal Targets
106


 

H. Stockhorst, R. Maier, D. Prasuhn, R. Stassen
                       FZJ, Jülich, Germany
T. Katayama
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

Stochastic cooling of heavy ions is investigated under the constraint of the present hardware design of the cooling system and RF cavities as well as the given magnet design as foreseen for anti-proton cooling in the HESR of the FAIR facility. A bare uranium beam is injected from the collector ring CR into the HESR at 740 MeV/u. The beam preparation for an internal target experiment with cooling is outlined. The acceleration of the ion beam to 2 GeV/u is studied under the basic condition of the available cavity voltages and the maximum magnetic field ramp rate in the HESR. The cooling simulations include the beam-target interaction due to a Hydrogen and Xenon target. Diffusion due to Schottky and thermal noise as well as intra beam scattering is accounted for. Due to the higher charge states of the ions Schottky particle noise power becomes an important issue. The analysis considers the electronic power limitation to 500 W in case of momentum cooling. Fast Filter cooling is only available if the revolution harmonics do not overlap in the cooling bandwidth. Since overlap occurs for lower energies the application of the Time-Of-Flight (TOF) momentum cooling method is discussed.

 


 



MOPEA019
Studies of Bunch-bunch Interactions in the ANKA Storage Ring with Coherent Synchrotron Radiation using an Ultra-fast Terahertz Detection System
109


 

A.-S. Müller, B.M. Balzer, C.M. Caselle, N. Hiller, M. Hofherr, K.S. Ilin, V. Judin, B. Kehrer, S. Marsching, S. Naknaimueang, M.J. Nasse, J. Raasch, A. Scheuring, M. Schuh, M. Schwarz, M. Siegel, N.J. Smale, J.L. Steinmann, P. Thoma, M. Weber, S. Wuensch
                       KIT, Karlsruhe, Germany

 


 

Funding: Supported by Initiative and Networking Fund of the Helmholtz Association under contract No. VH-NG-320 and German Federal Ministry of Education and Research under Grant. Noss. 05K10VKC and 05K2010VKD
In the low-alpha operation mode of the ANKA synchrotron light source, coherent synchrotron radiation (CSR) is emitted from short electron bunches. Depending on the bunch current, the radiation shows bursts of high intensity. These bursts of high intensity THz radiation display a time evolution which can be observed only on long time scales with respect to the revolution period. In addition, long range wake fields can introduce a correlation between the bunches within a bunch train and thus modify the observed behavior. A novel detection system consisting of an ultra-fast superconducting THz detector and data acquisition system was used to investigate correlations visible on the bursting pattern and to study the interactions of very short pulses in the ANKA storage ring.

 


 



MOPEA020
Comparison of Different Approaches to Determine the Bursting Threshold at ANKA
112


 

P. Schönfeldt, N. Hiller, V. Judin, A.-S. Mueller, M. Schwarz, J.L. Steinmann
                       KIT, Karlsruhe, Germany

 


 

The synchrotron light source ANKA at the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology provides a dedicated low-α-optics. In this mode bursting of Coherent Synchrotron Radiation (CSR) is observed for bunch charges above a threshold that depends on beam parameters. This threshold can be determined by several approaches, e.g. bunch lengthening or changes in the THz radiation spectra. This paper compares different methods and their implementation at the ANKA storage ring outlining their advantages, disadvantages and limitations, including reliability and possibility of real time analysis.

 


 



MOPEA021
Status of the HESR Electron Cooler Test Set-up
115


 

M.W. Bruker, K. Aulenbacher, J. Dietrich, S. Friederich, A. Hofmann, T. Weilbach
                       HIM, Mainz, Germany
K. Aulenbacher
                       IKP, Mainz, Germany

 


 

For the proposed High Energy Storage Ring (HESR) at FAIR, it is foreseen to install an electron cooling device with a beam current of 3 A and a beam energy of 8 MeV. A test set-up was built at Helmholtz-Insitut Mainz (HIM) to conduct a feasibility study. One of the main goals of the test set-up is to evaluate the gun design proposed by TSL (Uppsala) with respect to vacuum handling, EM fields and the resulting beam parameters. Another purpose of the set-up is to achieve an energy recuperation efficiency of 1 - 10-5. To measure this quantity, a Wien filter has to be employed, which will also prove capable of mitigating collection losses. The current status of the project will be presented.

 


 



MOPEA022
Beam Profile Measurement for High Intensity Electron Beams
118


 

T. Weilbach, K. Aulenbacher, M.W. Bruker
                       HIM, Mainz, Germany
K. Aulenbacher
                       IKP, Mainz, Germany

 


 

Recent developments in the field of high intensity electron beams in the regime below 10 MeV, e.g. energy recovery linacs or magnetized high energy electron coolers, have led to special demands on the beam diagnostics. Since commonly used diagnostic tools like synchrotron radiation and scintillation screens are ineffective or not able to withstand the beam power without being damaged, new methods are needed. Hence a beam profile measurement system based on beam induced fluorescence (BIF) was built. This quite simple system images the light generated by the interaction of the beam with the residual gas onto a PMT. A more elaborated system, the Thomson Laser Scanner (TLS) - the non-relativistic version of the Laser Wire Scanner - is proposed as a method for non-invasive measurement of all phase space components, especially in the injector and merger parts of an ERL. Both methods are implemented in a 100 keV photo gun. Beam profile measurements with BIF as well as first results of the TLS will be presented.

 


 



MOPEA023
Lattice Design for the ILSF Booster Synchrotron
121


 

E. Ahmadi, H. Ghasem, F. Saeidi
                       ILSF, Tehran, Iran
H. Ghasem
                       IPM, Tehran, Iran

 


 

ILSF booster synchrotron is a full energy 3GeV injector with the circumference of 192m will be housed in a separate tunnel from storage ring. In order to keep low the emittance, a theoretical minimum emittance lattice in which the dipoles and quadrupoles have sextupole component has been considered for the booster. In this paper, the lattice concept and main features of the booster will be reported. The variation of emittance and beam size during booster ramping is also investigated. Finally the effect of existed eddy current on the chromaticity and dynamic aperture will be presented.

 


 



MOPEA024
Effects of Insertion Devices in the High Field Lattice Structure of ILSF Storage Ring
124


 

F. Saeidi, E. Ahmadi, H. Ghasem
                       ILSF, Tehran, Iran
H. Ghasem
                       IPM, Tehran, Iran

 


 

We have studied effects of different insertion devices(IDs) in the high filed ILSF storage ring. Radiation from the IDs leads to change emittance and energy spread of the ring and magnetic field of them results to beta-beating, tune shift and shrink of dynamic aperture. This paper describes effects of the IDs on beam parameters of the high field lattice structure of ILSF storage ring and proposes the compensation method of these effects.
farhad.saeidi@ipm.ir

 


 



MOPEA025
Closed Orbit Correction in the High Field Lattice of ILSF Storage Ring
127


 

H. Ghasem
                       IPM, Tehran, Iran
E. Ahmadi, F. Saeidi
                       ILSF, Tehran, Iran

 


 

In the high intensity storage rings, there are many sources of errors which lead to closed orbit distortion (COD). To study effect of errors on closed orbit and to find optimum arrangement of beam position monitors (BPMs) and strength of corrector magnets, different types of expected misalignments and field errors were imposed randomly in the high field lattice of ILSF storage ring. This paper gives the results of closed orbit correction in the ILSF ring and stipulates the strength of correctors.

 


 



MOPEA026
X-ray Powder Diffraction Beamline for the Iranian Light Source Facility
130


 

H. Khosroabadi, S. Amiri, H. Ghasem, A. Gholampour
                       ILSF, Tehran, Iran
H. Ghasem
                       IPM, Tehran, Iran

 


 

Iranian Light Source Facility (ILSF) project has been initiated since 2010 in order to design and construction of a synchrotron facility in Iran. In parallel with the machine’s activities, scientific committee, users community and beamline technical group are working on different aspects of the scientific and beamline design issues for the operating phase after construction*. X-ray powder diffraction beamline is one of the most priorities in ILSF due to wide range of applications and big potential user community in Iran. Conceptual design report of this beamline operating in other worldwide synchrotrons have been studied and compared in details. The light source and schematic design of the beamline has been prepared in this study. Then, the parameters have been calculated and have been optimized by employing computational software such as XOP and SHADOW**. The optical properties of the optical elements such as reflectivity, absorbance, Bragg diffraction, rocking curve, aberration, etc have been studied at this design, and the results have been compared with the other published results. The outcome and final results of this design progress will be discussed in details.
References:  * Conceptual Design Report (2011, summer), ILSF, http://ilsf.ipm.ac.ir/.  ** http://www.esrf.eu/UsersAndScience/Experiments/TBS/SciSoft/xop2.3.  

 


 



MOPEA027
New Optics with Emittance Reduction at the SPring-8 Storage Ring
133


 

Y. Shimosaki, K. Fukami, K.K. Kaneki, K. Kobayashi, M. Masaki, C. Mitsuda, T. Nakamura, T. Nakanishi, H. Ohkuma, M. Oishi, M. Shoji, K. Soutome, S. Takano, M. Takao
                       JASRI/SPring-8, Hyogo-ken, Japan

 


 

The machine tuning of a new optics is in progress at the SPring-8 storage ring, in order not only to provide brilliant photons for current users but also to study a strategy of a lattice design and a tuning scenario for the upgrade project SPring-8 II. The natural emittance is reduced to 2.4 nmrad from the present value of 3.4 nmrad without any change of magnet positions. The flux density 1.3 times higher than the present was observed at the diagnostics beamline. The nominal injection efficiency of the order of 80 % has been achieved (the present: 92 %) by correcting the error of the optics function, by adjusting the strength of the injection magnets and by optimizing the sextupole magnetic fields. The beam lifetime was 13 h at 1 mA / bunch (the present: 22 h), and the momentum aperture estimated from the measurement of the Touschek lifetime was 2.3 % (the present: 2.8 %). Though these are tolerable to the user operation, further optimization of the sextupoles is ongoing. After verifying the photon beam performance at beamlines, this new optics will be applied to the user operation. The optics design and its beam performance will be presented in detail.

 


 



MOPEA028
Present Status of the KEK PF-Ring and PF-AR
136


 

K. Tsuchiya, S. Asaoka, K. Haga, K. Harada, T. Honda, Y. Honda, M. Isawa, Y. Kamiya, T. Miyajima, H. Miyauchi, S. Nagahashi, N. Nakamura, T. Nogami, T. Obina, T. Ozaki, H. Sagehashi, H. Sakai, S. Sakanaka, H. Sasaki, Y. Sato, M. Shimada, K. Shinoe, T. Shioya, M. Tadano, T. Tahara, T. Takahashi, R. Takai, Y. Tanimoto, T. Uchiyama, A. Ueda, K. Umemori, M. Yamamoto
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
H. Takaki
                       ISSP/SRL, Chiba, Japan

 


 

In KEK, two synchrotron light sources have been operated. One is the 2.5 GeV Photon Factory storage ring (PF-ring) and the other is the 6.5 GeV Photon Factory advanced ring (PF-AR). In this paper, present operational status and recent R&D activities such as fast local bump system for helicity switching undulator, hybrid injection system, pulsed-sextupole injection, etc. Futhermore, upgrade plan towards the top-up injection of 6.5 GeV PF-AR ring is underway. Construction of the straight injection tunnel from linac to PF-AR will be started next fiscal year. Design detail and strategy for the injection scheme will be reported.

 


 



MOPEA029
Status of UVSOR III
139


 

T. Konomi, M. Adachi, K. Hayashi, M. Katoh, J. Yamazaki
                       UVSOR, Okazaki, Japan
M. Adachi, M. Katoh
                       Sokendai - Okazaki, Okazaki, Aichi, Japan

 


 

UVSOR-III is the 750 MeV synchrotron light source. In 2012, three new components were installed in the storage ring. First one is combined function bending magnets to reduce the emittance from 27 nm-rad to 17 nm-rad. These magnets can produce dipole, quadrupole and sextupole fields at the same time. Second ones are an in-vacuum undulator and a beam line. It was installed at 1.5 m straight section, which is the last section reserved for insertion devices. As a result, UVSOR-III is now equipped with six undulators. It would provide soft X-rays to a scanning transmission X-ray microscope (STXM) beam-line. Last one is a newly designed pulse sextupole magnet at the injection point. This is beneficial to the user experiments in the top-up operation mode. Fine machine tuning is in progress.

 


 



MOPEA030
Status of UVSOR-III
142


 

N. Yamamoto
                       Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan
T. Konomi
                       UVSOR, Okazaki, Japan

 


 

Construction of the Central Japan Synchrotron Radiation (SR) Facility has been completed in the Aichi area of Japan, and the beam commissioning was started in Spring of 2012. Up to now, it is confirmed that the 1.2 GeV storage ring works with 300 mA Top-up mode. The key equipments of the accelerators are a compact electron storage ring with the ability to supply hard X-rays and full energy injectors for the top-up operation. The accelerators consist of an electron storage ring, a booster synchrotron ring, and an injector linac. In this prezentation, the present status of the accelerators are reported.

 


 



MOPEA031
Study of Extraction and Transport of Intense Highly Charged Ions for 18GHz SC-ECRIS at RCNP
145


 

T. Yorita, M. Fukuda, K. Hatanaka, K. Kamakura, S. Morinobu, A. Tamii, Y. Yasuda
                       RCNP, Osaka, Japan

 


 

An 18 GHz superconducting ECRIS has also been installed to increase beam currents and to extend the variety of ions, especially for highly charged heavy ions which can be accelerated by RCNP cyclotrons. The mirror magnetic field is produced with four liquid-helium-free superconducting coils and the permanent magnet hexapole is of Halbach type with 24 pieces of NEOMAX-44H material. The production development of several ions like B, O, N, Ne, Ar, Ni, Kr and Xe has been performed. Further study for its beam extraction and transport have been done in order to increase the beam injected to cyclotron. The parameters of extraction systems and electrostatic lens are optimized taking account with magnetic field leakage from AVF Cyclotron. Emittance study also has been done to see the quality of injection beam. For that purpose two types of emittance monitor have been developed. One is using three wire profile monitor and another has BPM with rotating wire for quick measurement. The details of these developments will be presented.

 


 



MOPEA032
Installation Status of Deuteron Injector of IFMIF Prototype Accelerator in Japan
148


 

H. Shidara, J. Knaster
                       IFMIF/EVEDA, Rokkasho, Japan
D. Bogard, N. Chauvin, P. Girardot, R. Gobin, F. Harrault, D. Loiseau, P.A.P. Nghiem, A. Roger, F. Senée
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France
L. Semeraro
                       F4E, Barcelona, Spain

 


 

The International Fusion Materials Irradiation Facility (IFMIF) will generate a neutron irradiation field with the spectrum simulating the fusion D-T neutrons (14 MeV) to qualify suitable materials for fusion power plants. The IFMIF accelerator facility provides two CW / 40 MeV / 125 mA deuteron beams to the IFMIF Lithium target facility. In the Engineering Validation and Engineering Design Activities phase, the concept of IFMIF is validated with a single CW / 9 MeV / 125 mA deuteron accelerator prototype under construction in JAEA/Rokkasho. The injector part has been designed, constructed and successfully tested by CEA/Saclay. The ECR ion source produces a deuteron beam of 140 mA at 100 keV. In spring 2013, the injector will be delivered and re-installed on the Rokkasho site. This paper will focus on the detailed plan of the injector’s re-assembly as well as on the re-commissioning. Further possible improvements are discussed in order to achieve reliable operation.

 


 



MOPEA033
Status of Upgrade Project of the 1.2 GeV Booster Synchrotron at Tohoku University
151


 

F. Hinode, H. Hama, S. Kashiwagi, T. Muto, I. Nagasawa, K. Nanbu, Y. Shibasaki, K. Takahashi
                       Tohoku University, Research Center for Electron Photon Science, Sendai, Japan

 


 

The 1.2 GeV electron synchrotron has been operated for nuclear physics experiment since 1997 in Electron Light Science Centre, Tohoku University, in which the high energy gamma-rays via bremsstrahlung has been supplied for hadron physics. After the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011, recovery and reconstruction work of the accelerator complex is in progress vigorously. While the compact 90 MeV linac is newly constructed as the dedicated injector for the synchrotron, old power supplies of synchrotron magnets and also pulsed magnets for beam injection are going to be replaced in the synchrotron. Furthermore replacements of some quadrupole magnets to the combined function magnets with sextupole component are also on going. Modifying the ring optics so as to introduce the horizontal dispersion on the combined magnet position, this replacement work will make it possible to correct the chromaticity. At the present, power supplies and combined magnets have been manufactured and those installations will be completed soon. We will present the current status of upgrade project of the booster synchrotron.

 


 



MOPEA036
Transport Line Orbit Correction for CSNS/RTBT
154


 

Y. Li, Y.W. An, Z.P. Li, W.B. Liu, S. Wang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

Dipole field kicks arisen from the construction and alignment of the magnets may cause the orbit distortion and reduce the efficiency of beam extraction and striking target in RTBT transport line of CSNS. In this paper, orbit correction is done based on XAL Orbit Correction application with the algorithm modified partially and the result was according with by AT toolbox. Meanwhile, the orbit correction before the target was special considered for the beams striking the target center vertically.

 


 



MOPEA037
Theoretical Study on the Two-stage Collimation System Design
157


 

N. Wang, S. Wang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

Two-stage collimation system is widely used in high intensity machines to localize the beam losses in a restricted area. In the well-known theory, the optical constrains are expressed by the betatronic phase advances between primary and secondary collimators, which minimize the size of the secondary halo. In this paper, the physical model is developed considering the characteristic of the space charge dominated beams. Numerical studied are performed to verify the theoretical model.

 


 



MOPEA038
Coherent Wiggler Radiation of Picosecond CW Electron Beam Produced by DC-SRF Photoinjector
160


 

S. Huang, J.E. Chen, S. Chen, K.X. Liu, S.W. Quan, Zh.W. Wang, X.D. Wen, F. Zhu
                       PKU, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

The DC-SRF photoinjector at Peking University is capable of providing CW electron beam with the energy of 3-5 MeV. The beam has high repetition rate, picosecond bunch length and high quality, which can be used to produce high repetition rate THz wave by wiggler radiation. Through off-crest acceleration, electron beam from the injector may be bunched, which will lead to coherent enhancement of the radiation power. With current setup of the DC-SRF injector and a 10-period wiggler, THz radiation power of 10s mW to a few watts can be achieved within the wavelength range of 200 μm to 500 μm. In this work, we will present the calculation results about THz radiation produced by the electron beam from DC-SRF photoinjector. The preparation for the experiments will be also described.

 


 



MOPEA039
Beam Commissioning and Neutron Radiography on a High Current Deuteron RFQ
163


 

Y.R. Lu, J. Chen, J.E. Chen, S.L. Gao, Z.Y. Guo, F.J. Jia, G. Liu, S.X. Peng, H.T. Ren, W.L. Xia, X.Q. Yan, K. Zhu
                       PKU, Beijing, People's Republic of China
S.Q. Liu, S. Wang, J. Zhao, B.Y. Zou
                       State Key Laboratory of Nuclear Physics and Technology, Beijing, Haidian District, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: Supported by NSFC 11079001 and Peking University
The high current deuteron RFQ has been developed and widely used in many projects, especially for accelerator based neutron source and its application. This paper reviews not only the recent developments in the world wide, also presents the beam dynamics, structure design ,RF full power test, beam commissioning of PKUNIFTY, which is consisted of a high current very compact ECR source, a 201.5MHz four-rod deuteron RFQ, thicker beryllium target and its moderating, collimation and neutron radiography system. RF and beam commissioning with duty cycle of 4% show the RFQ inter-vane voltage reaches 70kV at about 240kW, the delivered deuteron peak beam current is about 12mA at 290kW with the beam transmission of about 60%. The improvement of transmission is going on. The initial neutron radiography commissioning has been carried out. The results will promote the future development of small accelerator based neutron source.

 


 



MOPEA040
Study of Geometry Dependent Multipacting of a Superconducting QWR
166


 

K. Zhou, X.Y. Lu, X. Luo, S.W. Quan, L. Yang, Z.Y. Yao
                       PKU, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: The Major Research Plan of National Natural Science Foundation of China
A superconducting quarter wave resonator (QWR) of frequency=162.5 MHz and β=0.085 has been designed at Peking University. This paper focus on the multipacting (MP) study for the QWR with CST Particle Studio. The simulation results for the initial designed model reveal that there is no sign of MP with its normal operating accelerating gradients in the range of 6-8 MV/m. The accelerating gradient range that may incur MP is from about 1.4 MV/m to 3.2 MV/m, and the places where MP may be encountered are mainly located at the top part of the QWR. So the effect of different top geometries on MP has also been studied in depth. Our results show that inward convex round roof is better than other round roofs, and plane roofs have an obvious advantage over round roofs on the suppression of MP in general. While considering the optimization of its electromagnetic (EM) design, our initial designed model is also acceptable.

 


 



MOPEA042
Research on the Design and Simulation of the CSRE Stochastic Cooling System
169


 

X.J. Hu, H. Jia, Y.J. Yuan, X.H. Zhang
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China

 


 

Stochastic cooling by the use of a feedback system, aims at cooling of secondary particles or particles with large emittance or momentum spread. My research is mainly on the simulation of horizontal and longitudinal stochastic cooling process. The purpose of my work is to obtain the optimum parameters for stochastic cooling, according the actual accelerator lattice. Pickup and preamplifier are already installed on the CSRe, and preliminary results are get.

 


 



MOPEA043
Transverse Instabilities of Two Twisted Beams in a Storage Ring
172


 

B.C. Jiang, M.Z. Zhang, Z.T. Zhao
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China
G.X. Xia
                       UMAN, Manchester, United Kingdom

 


 

Two twisted beams (two beams run on the different closed orbit) in a storage ring which is produced by fast kickers can potentially deliver two bunds of radiations through one insertion device or one bend magnet, in this way doubles the beam line stations. This operation mode needs higher beam current and more RF buckets to be filled to keep the brightness comparable to the single beam operation mode. The resistive wall instability and ion trapping effects is analysed to address the higher current operation possibility. The analyze results show that twisted beams can weaken those two instabilities.

 


 



MOPEA044
Maintenance Experience for Personnel Safety System at SSRF
175


 

J.J. Lu, P. Fei, G. Wang, X. Xia, J.Q. Xu, X.J. Xu
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China

 


 

To improve reliability and reduce faults of Personal Safety System (PSS) at Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF), two types of system maintenances were carried out since SSRF completion in 2009. The maintenances include maintenance during machine operation and that during shutdown period. The failures of the PSS are summarized for last 3 years operation, and the causes of these failures are analyzed. Main failures were occurred in the access control system and UPS power-supply mode during last 3 years operation. To treat these failures, detail maintenance plan and system upgrading schemes were carried out. After the maintenance and system upgrading, the numbers of beam shutdown which caused directly by the PSS failures are obviously reduced. It was 4 times beam shutdown in 2009 and 0 in 2011.

 


 



MOPEA045
Performance Optimization and Upgrade of the SSRF Storage Ring
178


 

Z.T. Zhao, B.C. Jiang, Y.B. Leng, S.Q. Tian, L. Yin, W.Z. Zhang
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China

 


 

The SSRF storage ring achieved its design performance goal in 2008, in the following years its performance was optimized and improved, including implementing top-up operation and low emittance lattice configuration as well as other attempts like fast orbit feedback and low alpha mode. In order to meet the requirements of accommodating more beamlines and high demanding performance in its phase-II beamline project, the SSRF storage ring is being upgraded with a design based on superbend based lattice and a third harmonic RF cavity system. This paper presents the main optimization works and the upgrade design considerations on the SSRF storage ring performance.

 


 



MOPEA046
Solaris Project Progress
181


 

A.I. Wawrzyniak, C.J. Bocchetta, P.B. Borowiec, D. Einfeld, P.P. Goryl, M. Młynarczyk, R. Nietubyć, M.P. Nowak, W. Soroka, M.J. Stankiewicz, P. Szostak, P.S. Tracz, Ł. Walczak, K. Wawrzyniak, J.J. Wiechecki, M. Zając, Ł. Żytniak
                       Solaris, Kraków, Poland
D. Einfeld
                       MAX-lab, Lund, Sweden
R. Nietubyć
                       NCBJ, Świerk/Otwock, Poland

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the European Regional Development Fund within the frame of the Innovative Economy Operational Program:POIG.02.01.00-12-213/09
Solaris is a 3rd generation light source facility being built in Kraków, Poland at the Jagiellonian University Campus. The project is being accomplished in a tight collaboration with the MAX IV Laboratory in Lund, Sweden. The Solaris 1.5 GeV storage ring is a replica of the MAX IV 1.5 GeV machine, whereas the injector and the transfer line although based on the same components, are unique for Solaris. One of the main differences is the 600 MeV injection energy requiring an energy ramp in the storage ring to the final operating energy of 1.5 GeV. The construction of the facility started in early 2010 and is planned to be finished in the autumn 2014. Up to now, 70% of the components have been procured and construction of the buildings in progress with expected handover in autumn 2013. This paper will give an update on infrastructure progress and design choices for shielding, service area placement of racks and routing of piping and cables. An update is also presented of machine layout that includes the injector, transfer line and storage ring.

 


 



MOPEA047
Ramping of the Solaris Storage Ring Achromat
184


 

A.I. Wawrzyniak, C.J. Bocchetta, D. Einfeld, R. Nietubyć
                       Solaris, Kraków, Poland
D. Einfeld
                       MAX-lab, Lund, Sweden
R. Nietubyć
                       NCBJ, Świerk/Otwock, Poland

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the European Regional Development Fund within the frame of the Innovative Economy Operational Program:POIG.02.01.00-12-213/09,
The combined function magnets implemented for the MAX IV and Solaris 1.5 GeV storage ring double bend achromats (DBAs) represents a challenging task in magnetic design. The constituent magnets in the DBA block may be sensitive to saturation effects which must be accounted for, especially in the case of energy ramping, as is the case for Solaris and not for MAXIV, where injection will take place at a beam energy of 0.55-0.6 GeV. The magnetic field distribution was calculated as a function of energy in the range from 0.5 GeV up to 1.5 GeV for the gradient dipole and for the quadrupoles containing a sextupole component. Results show that for the dipole, which generates the strongest field, the relative change of quadrupole strength is lower than 4.10-3. For the quadrupoles the sextupole component is within the relative range of less than 0.7.10-4. The impact on linear and non-linear optics at low energies has been accordingly studied. This is on-going studies and only preliminary results are presented in this paper.

 


 



MOPEA048
Operation Status of RF System for the PLS-II Storage Ring
187


 

M.-H. Chun, J.Y. Huang, Y.D. Joo, H.-G. Kim, S.H. Nam, C.D. Park, H.J. Park, I.S. Park, Y.U. Sohn, I.H. Yu
                       PAL, Pohang, Kyungbuk, Republic of Korea

 


 

Funding: Supported by the Korea Ministry of Science and Technology
The RF system of the Pohang Light Source-II (PLS-II) storage ring is operating at the 3.0GeV/200mA with two superconducting RF (SRF) cavities. Each RF station is composed with a 300kW klystron with power supply unit, transmission components, a digital LLRF and a SRF cavity. And a cryogenic system of 700W capacities is supplied the LHe and LN2 to three cryomodules of SRF cavities. The second SRF cavity is installed during at the beginning in 2013 and the third one will be installed during summer shutdown in 2014 for stable 400mA operation with all 20 insertion devices. Also the third high power RF station with a 300kW klystron, power supply unit and WR1800 waveguide components will be prepared in 2013. The third LLRF system is already installed, but improved stabilities of amplitude, phase and tuner control. This paper describes the present operation status and improve plan of the RF system for the PLS-II storage ring.

 


 



MOPEA049
The First  Experience of PLS-II Operation
190


 

S.H. Nam, M.-H. Cho, J.Y. Huang, C.D. Park, S. Shin
                       PAL, Pohang, Kyungbuk, Republic of Korea

 


 

Funding: Mministry of Education, Science and Technology (MEST) of Korea
One of recent major activities of the Pohang Accelerator Laboratory (PAL) in Korea has been PLS-II user operation. The PLS-II is a Korea’s only and brand new 3rd generation synchrotron radiation source that was upgraded from the 16-year-old PLS in 2011. The old PLS started user service from 1995 and shutdown on Dec. 10, 2010. The PLS-II has been open to users from March 2012 with upgraded performance. The performance parameters of the PLS-II are 5.8 nm-rad emittance, 3.0GeV beam energy, and 400mA beam current with the top-up injection. The unique feature of PLS-II will be the implementation of 20 insertion-devices in a compact double-bend-achromat storage ring of 280m-long circumference. Among 20 insertion-devices, 14 are in-vacuum undulators. The first year operation in 2012 will be successfully completed and the operational statistics will be summarized and discussed.

 


 



MOPEA051
Insertion Devices Influence on the Beam Dynamics at Siberia-2 Storage Ring
193


 

S.I. Tomin, V. Korchuganov
                       NRC, Moscow, Russia

 


 

Siberia-2 is now running with 7.5 T wiggler and the installation of additional two 3 T SC wigglers is under consideration. Besides that the insertion of an undulator with very short period up to 7 mm is planed. We studied an influence of the insertion devices on the dynamic aperture using new computer code which permits to find an electron beam trajectory in ID by Runge-Kutta integrator. Using two independent approaches it was shown that ID introduces the nonlinear components of magnetic field which lead to significant decrease of dynamic aperture in vertical direction. Nonlinear components of ID magnetic field are shown. Results of numerical calculation of Siberia-2 dynamic aperture are presented as well.

 


 



MOPEA053
Status of NSLS-II Booster
196


 

S.M. Gurov, A.I. Erokhin, S.E. Karnaev, V.A. Kiselev, E.B. Levichev, A. Polyansky, A.M. Semenov, S.V. Shiyankov, S.V. Sinyatkin, V.V. Smaluk
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia
H.-C. Hseuh, T.V. Shaftan
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

The National Synchrotron Light Source II is a third generation light source under construction at Brookhaven National Laboratory. The project includes a highly optimized 3 GeV electron storage ring, linac pre-injector and full-energy injector-synchrotron. Budker Institute of Nuclear Physics build booster for NSLS-II. The booster should accelerate the electron beam continuously and reliably from a minimum 170 MeV injection energy to a maximum energy of 3.15 GeV and average beam current of 20 mA. The booster shall be capable of multi-bunch and single bunch operation. Pre-comissioning test results of booster components and system are reviewed.

 


 



MOPEA054
A Review of 14 Years of Operation of Helios2 at SSLS
199


 

Z.W. Li, M. Breese, E.P. Chew, C. Diao, M. Hua, A.W. Wong
                       SSLS, Singapore, Singapore

 


 

In this paper, we present the current status of the superconducting Helios2 Synchrotron and review its major problems and their solutions over the last 14 years. We described how various breakdowns in the cryogenics system, the control system, the RF system, Dipole power supplies, Ring gate valves and helium compressor have all been overcome and what valuable lessons have been learned in operating this machine.

 


 



MOPEA055
First Year Operation of the ALBA Synchrotron Light Source
202


 

F. Pérez
                       CELLS-ALBA Synchrotron, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain

 


 

ALBA is a 3 GeV, 3rd generation, light source located in Cerdanyola, Barcelona, Spain, which started users operation in May 2012. In this paper we will report about the transition from commissioning to operation, the main problems faced during this first year, the actual status of the accelerators and we will provide an outlook to the next steps.

 


 



MOPEA056
Measuring and Improving the Momentum Acceptance and Horizontal Acceptance at MAX III
205


 

A. Hansson, Å. Andersson, J. Breunlin, G. Skripka, E.J. Wallén
                       MAX-lab, Lund, Sweden

 


 

Lifetime measurements for varying horizontal scraper positions performed at different RF frequencies suggested a horizontal aperture restriction in the MAX III synchrotron light source. A combination of local orbit distortions and horizontal scraper measurements pinpointed the location of the horizontal aperture restriction to the center of the main cavity straight section. The aperture restriction was determined to be located 10.4 ± 0.3 mm from the beam center. The precise result was achieved by measurements and calculations of the Touschek lifetime as a function of the main cavity voltage. Realignment of the main cavity increased the average lattice momentum acceptance from 0.0116 ± 0.0003 to 0.0158 ± 0.0003 and the horizontal acceptance from 26 ± 2 × 10-6 m to larger than 44 ± 2 × 10-6 m. The increase in momentum acceptance increased the lifetime in MAX III by a factor of two.

 


 



MOPEA057
Studies of the Electron Beam Lifetime at MAX III
208


 

A. Hansson, Å. Andersson, J. Breunlin, G. Skripka, E.J. Wallén
                       MAX-lab, Lund, Sweden

 


 

MAX III is a 700 MeV 3rd generation synchrotron light source located at the MAX IV Laboratory in Sweden. The lifetime in the storage ring is lower than originally envisaged. From vertical scraper measurements the lifetime contributions at 300 mA stored current have been determined. The lifetime is mainly limited by the Touschek lifetime, which is lower than its design value, whereas the vacuum lifetime is close to the expected value. The low Touschek lifetime is explained by a lower than design emittance ratio and momentum acceptance in the storage ring.

 


 



MOPEA058
CNGS, CERN Neutrinos to Gran Sasso, Five Years of Running a 500 Kilowatt Neutrino Beam Facility at CERN
211


 

E. Gschwendtner, K. Cornelis, I. Efthymiopoulos, A. Pardons, H. Vincke, J. Wenninger
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
I. Krätschmer
                       HEPHY, Wien, Austria

 


 

The CNGS facility (CERN Neutrinos to Gran Sasso) aims at directly detecting muon to tau neutrino oscillations where an intense muon-neutrino beam (1017 muon-neutrinos/day) is generated at CERN and directed over 732km towards the Gran Sasso National Laboratory, LNGS, in Italy, where two large and complex detectors, OPERA and ICARUS, are located. The CNGS facility (CNGS Neutrinos to Gran Sasso) started with the physics program in 2008 and delivered until the end of the physics run 2012 more than 80% of the approved protons on target (22.5·1019 pot). An overview of the performance and experience gained in operating this 500kW neutrino beam facility is described. Major events since the commissioning of the facility in 2006 are summarized. Highlights on the CNGS beam performance are given.

 


 



MOPEA059
The Optimization of Transverse Stripline Kicker
214


 

H.P. Hsueh, C.-C. Chang, Y.P. Chang, J.-R. Chen, Y.T. Cheng, G.-Y. Hsiung, Y.C. Yang
                       NSRRC, Hsinchu, Taiwan
J.-R. Chen
                       National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan

 


 

The construction of a new 3 GeV synchrotron facility, Taiwan Photon Source, is ongoing. It is required to install stripline kickers to suppress instability generated by mismatch between injection kickers or imperfect installation of vacuum components all around. First, the design philosophy will be described for transverse stripline kickers. HFSS electromagnetic simulation software is used to optimize all structure parameters like electrode dimensions, electrode distance from vacuum chambers etc. to make transverse stripline kicker working more efficiently and effectively. All simulation results will be presented in this paper and all structure dimension choices will be discussed and the final prototype structure dimensions will be selected from the discussion.

 


 



MOPEA060
Design of Low Momentum Compaction Lattices for the TPS Storage Ring
217


 

C.-C. Kuo, H.-J. Tsai
                       NSRRC, Hsinchu, Taiwan

 


 

The nominal bunch length is around 10 ps rms in the Taiwan Photon Source (TPS), which is currently under construction. To further reduce bunch length to a few ps rms range, low momentum compaction factor configurations (low alpha), i.e., quasi-isochronous machines, are designed. The beam dynamics issues of the TPS low alpha lattices are reported.

 


 



MOPEA061
Operation Experience at Taiwan Light Source
220


 

Y.-C. Liu, H.H. Chen, H.C. Chen, S. Fann, S.J. Huang, J.A. Li, C.C. Liang, Y.K. Lin, Y.-H. Lin, M.-S. Yeh
                       NSRRC, Hsinchu, Taiwan

 


 

A matrix structure has been implemented for the purpose of successful operation of TLS and continuous progress of Taiwan Photon Source (TPS) construction. A dedicated and flexible manpower distribution has proven it could keep as same performance of TLS operation as possible. We will summarize the machine operation experience at TLS during TPS civil construction period.

 


 



MOPEA062
Metrology of the NESTOR Facility Equipment
222


 

O. Bezditko, V.E. Ivashchenko, I.M. Karnaukhov, A. Mytsykov, A.V. Reuzayev, A.Y. Zelinsky
                       NSC/KIPT, Kharkov, Ukraine

 


 

Development of X-ray generator NESTOR in the National Science Center Kharkov Institute of Physics&Technology will let significantly extend the scientific program of investigations that are carried out in NSC KIPT, will allow to increase an amount and improve quality of experimental researches in the field of physics and chemistry In this work tolerances for accuracy installation of the lattice elements of the complex are defined. The methods of lattice element position measurement were detected and ways of their realization were defined. These allow to realize the project parameters of NESTOR facility and, first of all, generated X-ray beam intensity.

 


 



MOPEA063
The First Results of the NESTOR Commissioning
225


 

A.Y. Zelinsky, V.P. Androsov, O. Bezditko, V.N. Boriskin, P. Gladkikh, A.N. Gordienko, V.A. Grevtsev, A. Gvozd, V.E. Ivashchenko, A.A. Kalamayko, I.I. Karnaukhov, I.M. Karnaukhov, D. Korzhov, V.P. Kozin, V.A. Kushnir, V.P. Lyashchenko, M.P. Maksim, V.S. Margin, N.I. Mocheshnikov, V.V. Mytrochenko, A. Mytsykov, F.A. Peev, O.V. Ryezayev, V.P. Sergienko, A.A. Shcherbakov, S. Sheyko, V.L. Skirda, Y.N. Telegin, V.I. Trotsenko, O.P. Zolochevskij, O.D. Zvonarjova
                       NSC/KIPT, Kharkov, Ukraine

 


 

In the paper the first results of the NESTOR facility are presented. 60 MeV electron linac injector has been tested and the first electron beam with project parameters was registered at the screen monitors. Electron beam was passed through the transportation channel and injection system. As a result, the first turn of the storage ring was closed.

 


 



MOPEA064
A New Long Pulse High Voltage Extraction Power Supply for FETS
228


 

D.C. Faircloth, S.R. Lawrie, M. Perkins
                       STFC/RAL/ISIS, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom

 


 

A new 25 kV 2 ms 50 Hz extraction voltage power supply has been developed for the high performance H-minus ion source for the Front End Test Stand at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory. The power supply has been designed to fit in a single 19 inch rack and has a modular design for easy maintenance. This paper details the design and performance of the power supply and extracted beam currents.

 


 



MOPEA065
Commissioning of the Ion Source for Siemens Novel Electrostatic Accelerator
231


 

H. von Jagwitz-Biegnitz
                       JAI, Oxford, United Kingdom
P. Beasley, O. Heid
                       Siemens AG, Erlangen, Germany
D.C. Faircloth
                       STFC/RAL/ISIS, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom
A.J. Holmes
                       Marcham Scientific Ltd, Hungerford, United Kingdom
R.G. Selway
                       Inspired Engineering Ltd, Climping, United Kingdom
B. Singh, E. Zitvogel
                       BNL, Upton, New York, USA

 


 

Siemens is developing a novel compact DC electrostatic tandem accelerator and currently building a prototype. A dedicated H− ion source for this accelerator has been designed and built. This paper reports on some of the design features as well as results of the commissioning phase of this filament driven DC multicusp volume H− ion source. Stable H− currents of more then 300 μA at 10 keV have been extracted. This satisfies the beam current requirement of the novel accelerator.

 


 



MOPEA066
Investigation and Test of the Possibility of Reducing the Emittance of the Diamond Storage Ring
234


 

B. Singh, M. Apollonio, R. Bartolini, E.C. Longhi
                       Diamond, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom
R. Bartolini, T. Pulampong
                       JAI, Oxford, United Kingdom

 


 

Theoretical and experimental studies have been carried out at the Diamond Light Source to assess the possibility of reducing the emittance of the existing storage ring by means of a change to the optics. The optics solutions obtained so far using a Multi Objective Genetic Algorithm (MOGA) increase the dispersion and the horizontal beta function in the straight section. While the emittance can be reduced to 2.1 nm this optics is limited by the operation of high field superconducting wiggler devices. In this report we present details of the new optics and present results of practical tests. We also compare the theoretical emittance growth due to a wiggler in a dispersive region with test results.

 


 



MOPEA067
Ultra-low Emittance Upgrade Options for Third Generation Light Sources
237


 

R. Bartolini
                       Diamond, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom
T. Pulampong
                       JAI, Oxford, United Kingdom

 


 

The increasing efforts in the synchrotron light sources community toward the design of a diffraction limited source at multi-keV photon energy have eventually stimulated the existing facilities to investigate possible upgrade paths to higher photon brightness and lower emittances to maintain their competitiveness within the users’ community. We present a possible option for upgrading 3rd generation light sources based on a rebiuld of the arcs with MBA cells, using diamond as an example. Emphasis is given to the AP desing issues with a view to minimal changes to the machine layout, contained cost and minimal downtime

 


 



MOPEA068
Novel Lattice Upgrade Studies for Diamond Light Source
240


 

R. Bartolini, C.P. Bailey, M.P. Cox, N.P. Hammond, J. Kay, R.P. Walker
                       Diamond, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom
R. Bartolini, T. Pulampong
                       JAI, Oxford, United Kingdom

 


 

Many synchrotron radiation facilities are studying lattice upgrades in order to lower the natural emittance and hence increase the radiation brightness. At Diamond we are pursuing a novel alternative, not targeting the minimum possible emittance but instead introducing additional insertion device (ID) straights and hence increasing the capacity of the facility, while still possibly achieving a more limited reduction in emittance. The new scheme involves converting some of the DBA lattice cells into a double-DBA or DDBA, with a new ID straight between the two achromats. This then allows existing or future bending magnet ports (which in Diamond are taken from near the entrance to the second dipole of the DBA lattice) to be served by a much more powerful insertion device. We present here the design concept and preliminary lattice design, and discuss the challenging magnet, vacuum and engineering issues.

 


 



MOPEA069
Tuning of the Injector System to Match Possible Lattice Upgrades at Diamond Light Source
243


 

C. Christou, R. Bartolini, J. Kay
                       Diamond, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom
R. Bartolini
                       JAI, Oxford, United Kingdom

 


 

Studies of novel lattice upgrades for Diamond Light Source to achieve an increase in the number of insertion devices and/or a lower natural emittance are underway (as reported elsewhere at this conference). Such upgrades if carried out progressively would result in successive reductions in storage ring circumference. To maintain synchronous injection then requires the injector system to operate at various frequencies to match these changes. This paper describes the tests carried out with beam, to prove that the injector system of Linac and full energy Booster can be tuned over an extended frequency range.

 


 



MOPEA070
Operating the Diamond Light Source in Low Alpha Mode for Users
246


 

I.P.S. Martin, R. Bartolini, G. Cinque, G. Rehm, C.A. Thomas
                       Diamond, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom
R. Bartolini
                       JAI, Oxford, United Kingdom

 


 

Since its first introduction in April 2009, the low alpha operational mode has been continually refined in order to best meet the needs of the user community. Initially the optics were used only to generate short x-ray pulses, for which a stable, low emittance, single bunch was requested, with the emphasis placed on increased bunch charge over shortest absolute pulse duration. More recently, the optics have been adapted to enhance the CSR gain in the THz region of the electromagnetic spectrum. In this paper we summarise the work carried out in order to meet these two demands.

 


 



MOPEA071
Operating the Diamond Storage Ring with Reduced Vertical Emittance
249


 

I.P.S. Martin, M.G. Abbott, M. Apollonio, R. Bartolini, D. Hickin
                       Diamond, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom
R. Bartolini
                       JAI, Oxford, United Kingdom

 


 

In a synchrotron radiation light source, a reduction in vertical emittance can potentially increase the source brightness, reduce the spot size for microfocus beam lines or increase the vertical transverse coherence of the photon beam. With this aim, the target vertical emittance for the Diamond storage ring has been recently reduced from 27pm.rad to 8pm.rad (0.3% coupling). In this paper we discuss the main impacts of this reduction, along with the steps that have been taken to stabilise the coupling at the new value.

 


 



MOPEA072
Recent Improvement of the APS Booster Synchrotron
252


 

C. Yao, R. Laird, V. Sajaev, N. Sereno, H. Shang, J. Wang, S. Xu
                       ANL, Argonne, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Science, under Contract No. DE-ACO2-O6CH11357.
The APS booster injector is a 7-GeV electron synchrotron. Several improvements have been implemented in the booster area, including the development of the 92-nm low emittance lattice, upgrading the ramp current readback ADC, and development of a new firing card for the main ramp supplies. Recently we have completed the commissioning of the low emittance lattice and it is now APS operational lattice. Combined with improvement in the optimization in the storage ring lattice and injection, we have achieved close to 100% storage ring injection efficiency. This report presents the improvements and measured beam parameters and the measured performance of the ramp control.

 


 



MOPEA073
Current Status of the LBNE Neutrino Beam
255


 

C.D. Moore, K.R. Bourkland, C.F. Crowley, P. Hurh, J. Hylen, B.G. Lundberg, A. Marchionni, M.W. McGee, N.V. Mokhov, V. Papadimitriou, R.K. Plunkett, S.D. Reitzner, A.M. Stefanik, G. Velev, K.E. Williams, R.M. Zwaska
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the Fermilab Research Alliance, under contract DE-AC02-07CH11359 with the U.S. Dept of Energy.
The Long Baseline Neutrino Experiment (LBNE) will utilize a neutrino beamline facility located at Fermilab. The facility is designed to aim a beam of neutrinos toward a detector placed in South Dakota. The neutrinos are produced in a three-step process. First, protons from the Main Injector hit a solid target and produce mesons. Then, the charged mesons are focused by a set of focusing horns into the decay pipe, towards the far detector. Finally, the mesons that enter the decay pipe decay into neutrinos. The parameters of the facility were determined by an amalgam of the physics goals, the Monte Carlo modeling of the facility, and the experience gained by operating the NuMI facility at Fermilab. The initial beam power is expected to be ~700 kW, however some of the parameters were chosen to be able to deal with a beam power of 2.3 MW. The LBNE Neutrino Beam has made significant changes to the initial design through consideration of numerous Value Engineering proposals and the current design is described.

 


 



MOPEA074
Lattice Studies for a Potential Soft X-ray Diffraction Limited Upgrade of the ALS
258


 

C. Steier, J.M. Byrd, R.W. Falcone, S.D. Kevan, D. Robin, C. Sun, H. Tarawneh, W. Wan
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA

 


 

Funding: The Advanced Light Source is supported by the Director, Office of Science, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, of the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract No. DE-AC02-05CH11231.
The Advanced Light Source (ALS) at Berkeley Lab has seen many upgrades over the years, keeping it one of the brightest sources for soft x-rays worldwide. Recent developments in magnet technology and lattice design (multi bend achromat lattices) appear to open the door for very large further increases in brightness, particularly by reducing the horizontal emittance, even within the space constraints of the existing tunnel. Initial studies yielded candidate lattices which approach the soft x-ray diffraction limit (around 2 keV) in both planes within the ALS footprint.

 


 



MOPEA075
Completion of the Brightness Upgrade of the ALS
261


 

C. Steier, B.J. Bailey, K. Berg, A. Biocca, A.T. Black, P.W. Casey, D. Colomb, R.F. Gunion, N. Li, A. Madur, S. Marks, H. Nishimura, G.C. Pappas, K.V. Petermann, G.J. Portmann, S. Prestemon, A.W. Rawlins, D. Robin, S.L. Rossi, T. Scarvie, D. Schlueter, C. Sun, H. Tarawneh, W. Wan, E.C. Williams
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA
C. Chen, J. Jin, Y.M. Wen, J. Wu, L. Yin, J.D. Zhang, Q.G. Zhou
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: The Advanced Light Source is supported by the Director, Office of Science, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, of the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract No. DE-AC02-05CH11231.
The Advanced Light Source (ALS) at Berkeley Lab remains one of the brightest sources for soft x-rays worldwide. A multiyear upgrade of the ALS is underway, which includes new and replacement x-ray beamlines, a replacement of many of the original insertion devices and many upgrades to the accelerator. The accelerator upgrade that affects the ALS performance most directly is the ALS brightness upgrade, which reduced the horizontal emittance from 6.3 to 2.0 nm (2.5 nm effective). Magnets for this upgrade were installed starting in 2012 followed by a transition to user operations with 2.0 nm emittance in spring 2013.

 


 



MOPEA077
Accelerator Physics and Light Source Research Program at Duke University
264


 

Y.K. Wu
                       FEL/Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, USA

 


 

Funding: This work is supported in part by the US DOE grant no. DE-FG02-97ER41033.
he accelerator physics and light source research program at Duke Free-Electron Laser Laboratory (DFELL), TUNL, is focused on the development of the storage ring based free-electron lasers (FELs), and a state-of-the-art Compton gamma-ray source, the High Intensity Gamma-ray Source (HIGS). Driven by the storage ring FEL, the HIGS is world's most intense Compton gamma-ray source with a maximum total flux of few 1010 gamma per second (around 10 MeV). Operated in the energy range from 1 to 100 MeV, the HIGS is a premier nuclear physics research facility in the world. In 2012, we completed a major accelerator upgrade project with a wiggler switchyard system which allows the configuration changes between planar and helical FEL wigglers, and a great enhancement of the FEL gain when operated with 3 or 4 helical wigglers. In this paper, we will describe our ongoing light source development to produce gamma-ray beams in the new energy range of 100 and 158 MeV. We will also provide a summary of our accelerator physics research activities in the area of nonlinear dynamics, beam instability research, and FEL research.

 


 



MOPEA078
Commissioning and Operation of Wiggler Switchyard System for Duke FEL and HIGS
267


 

Y.K. Wu, M.D. Busch, M. Emamian, J.F. Faircloth, H. Hao, J.Y. Li, S.F. Mikhailov, V. Popov, G. Swift, P.W. Wallace, P. Wang, J. Yan
                       FEL/Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, USA
A.L. Wu
                       USTC/NSRL, Hefei, Anhui, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: This work is supported in part by the US DOE grant no. DE-FG02-97ER41033.
To enable the Duke storage ring FEL to operate in VUV with adequate gain, a major storage ring upgrade was carried out in 2012 to install two additional helical FEL wigglers with a wiggler switchyard system. Using the switchyard, a quick changeover can be made between two planar OK-4 wigglers and two helical OK-5 wigglers in the middle of the FEL straight section. This system preserves the linear polarization capabilities of the Duke FEL and gamma-ray beams at the High Intensity Gamma-ray Source (HIGS), while enabling VUV FEL operation with a higher gain using a longer FEL with as many as four helical wigglers. The wiggler switchyard upgrade was completed in Summer 2012, followed by a rapid and successful commissioning of the Duke storage ring, FEL system, and HIGS. In this paper, we will present the results of accelerator and light source commissioning with the wiggler switchyard. We will also present preliminary results of operating the OK-5 FEL in different configurations. With the wiggler switchyard, we are well positioned to realize the operation of a VUV FEL below 190 nm and production of Compton gamma-ray beams above 100 MeV in circular polarization.

 


 



MOPEA079
Improving Emittances in Existing Storage Rings by Defocusing Dipoles
270


 

C.E. Mayes, L. Gupta, G.H. Hoffstaetter, V.O. Kostroun, A.A. Mikhailichenko
                       CLASSE, Ithaca, New York, USA

 


 

Designs for ultimate storage rings typically employ two strategies to lower the emittances: 1) adding more bending magnets, and 2) using only focusing quadrupole magnets, with additional defocusing in the bending magnets. In an existing storage ring, the first strategy is precluded because the number of bends is typically fixed, but the second strategy could be used at modest expense. With the CESR storage ring as an example, we show how this is possible and propose an optics that reduces its emittance by more than a factor of 20. Furthermore, such an upgrade would could be installed incrementally without any long dark-time period.

 


 



MOPEA080
Status of the NSLS-II Injector
273


 

T.V. Shaftan, A. Blednykh, E.B. Blum, W.X. Cheng, J. Choi, L.R. Dalesio, M.A. Davidsaver, J.H. De Long, R.P. Fliller, G. Ganetis, F. Gao, A. Goel, W. Guo, K. Ha, R. Heese, H.-C. Hseuh, M.P. Johanson, B.N. Kosciuk, S. Kowalski, S.L. Kramer, Y. Li, W. Louie, S. Ozaki, D. Padrazo, J. Rose, S. Seletskiy, S.K. Sharma, G. Shen, O. Singh, V.V. Smaluk, Y. Tian, K. Vetter, W.H. Wahl, G.M. Wang, F.J. Willeke, X. Yang, L.-H. Yu, P. Zuhoski
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

We discuss the current status and plans for developing the NSLS-II injector. The latter consists of a 200 MeV linac, a 3-GeV booster, transport lines and the storage ring injection straight section. The system design and installation are complete. Last year we concluded 200-MeV linac commissioning and are planning to commission the 3 GeV booster during summer of 2013.

 


 



MOPEA083
Energy Modulation in Coherent Electron Cooling
276


 

G. Wang, M. Blaskiewicz, V. Litvinenko
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Brookhaven Science Associates, LLC under Contract No. DE-AC02-98CH10886 with the U.S. Department of Energy.
Coherent electron cooling (CeC) relies on Debye shielding to imprint information of the ion beam to an electron beam [1]. Apart from the density modulation, Debye shielding also modulates the energy of electrons, which provides additional seeding for the free electron laser (FEL) amplifier. In this work, we show that the energy modulation of a longitudinal slice of the electrons, induced by dynamic Debye shielding of a moving ion in anisotropic electron plasma with κ-2 velocity distribution, can be expressed into a 1D integral. The results are then applied to the 1D FEL model to investigate the effects of energy modulation to the correcting force in the kicker.
[1] V.N. Litvinenko, Y.S. Derbenev, Coherent Electron Cooling, Physical Review Letters, 102 (2009) 114801. http://link.aps.org/abstract/PRL/v102/e114801

 


 




