













IPAC2017 - Table of Session: FRXAA (Invited Oral Presentations, Beam Dynamics and Electromagnetic Fields)


FRXAA —  Invited Oral Presentations, Beam Dynamics and Electromagnetic Fields   (19-May-17   09:00—09:30)
Chair: A.-S. Mueller, KIT, Karlsruhe, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



FRXAA1
Laser Cooling of Relativistic Heavy Ion Beams
 


 

M.H. Bussmann, M. Löser
                       HZDR, Dresden, Germany
O. Boine-Frankenheim, L. Eidam
                       TEMF, TU Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany
O. Boine-Frankenheim, L. Eidam, T. Kühl, F. Nolden, R.M. Sanchez Alarcon, M. Steck, T. Stöhlker, D.F.A. Winters
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
A. Buss, V. Hannen, D. Winzen
                       Westfälische Wilhelms-Universität Münster, Institut für Kernphysik, Münster, Germany
Z. Huang, X. Ma, H. Wang, W.Q. Wen
                       IMP/CAS, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China
D. Kiefer, S. Klammes, W. Nörtershäuser, J. Ullmann, T. Walther
                       TU Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany
U. Schramm
                       TU Dresden, Dresden, Germany
U. Schramm, M. Siebold
                       Helmholtz-Zentrum Dresden-Rossendorf (HZDR), Institute of Radiation Physics, Dresden, Germany
T. Stöhlker
                       IOQ, Jena, Germany
T. Stöhlker
                       HIJ, Jena, Germany
C. Weinheimer
                       Institut für Kernphysik, Westfälische Wilhelms-Universität Münster, Münster, Germany

 


 

At high energies laser cooling is a very promising technique to reduce phase space of beams of high energy ions effciently and fast. With the advent of new facilities such as FAIR and HIAF research focuses on developing robust laser cooling setups. This requires an understanding of the underlying beam dynamics at high beam intensities, the development of reliable laser systems that can be used to cool a large variety of ion species and optical detection systems that complement standard accelerator beam diagnostics. Based on the lessons learned from ongoing experiments at the ESR at GSI, Darmstadt, and the CSRe at IMP, Lanzhou, the important design aspects of future laser cooling installations will be discussed. The talk will follow a how-to approach to discuss key design aspects of laser cooling setups and emphasize the important connection between advanced beam dynamics studies and optical control and diagnostics.

 






Slides FRXAA1 [4.765 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




