













IPAC2019 - Table of Session: TUZPLS (Invited Orals: Beam Dynamics and EM Fields)


TUZPLS —  Invited Orals: Beam Dynamics and EM Fields   (21-May-19   14:00—15:00)
Chair: D. Raparia, BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA


Paper
Title
Page



TUZPLS1
Microbunch Rotation and Coherent Undulator Radiation From a Kicked Electron Beam
 


SUSPFO130
  use link to see paper's listing under its alternate paper code
 


 

J.P. MacArthur
                       Stanford University, Stanford, California, USA
Z. Huang, J. Krzywiński, A.A. Lutman
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Most X-ray Free Electron Lasers (FELs) emit linearly polarized X-ray pulses. Recently, a device called the Delta undulator has been installed at the Linac Coherent Light Source (LCLS) to provide tuneable polarization. The electron beam is first microbunched by the LCLS normal undulators, then the microbunched beam is kicked prior to the Delta undulator, and an intense circularly polarized X-ray pulse is generated in the Delta undulator towards the kicked direction and is spatially separation from the linearly polarized radiation from upstream undulators. Coherent off-axis radiation is usually strongly suppressed because the microbunches themselves cannot rotate. The talk will show that microbunches can in fact rotate towards the new direction of travel if the kick is applied in a quadrupole focusing channel and also will clarify characteristics of the coherent undulator radiation from a tilted microbunch in the far-field and will compare simulations with experiments. This microbunch rotation can explain the unexpectedly large amount of off-axis radiation that was observed during Delta undulator experiments at LCLS and may have other applications to the advanced X-ray manipulations.

 






Slides TUZPLS1 [14.027 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



TUZPLS2
Beam Dynamics Study in the HEPS Storage Ring
1203


 

Y. Jiao, X. Cui, Z. Duan, Y.Y. Guo, P. He, X.Y. Huang, D. Ji, H.F. Ji, C. Li, J.Y. Li, X.Y. Li, C. Meng, Y.M. Peng, Q. Qin, S.K. Tian, J.Q. Wang, N. Wang, Y. Wei, G. Xu, H.S. Xu, F. Yan, C.H. Yu, Y.L. Zhao
                       IHEP, Beijing, People’s Republic of China

 


 

The High Energy Photon Source (HEPS) is the first high-energy diffraction-limited storage ring (DLSR) light source to be built in China, with a natural emittance of a few tens of pm rad and a circumference of 1360.4 m. After 10 years’ evolution, the accelerator physics design of the HEPS has been basically determined, with the ring consisting of 48 hybrid-7BAs with anti-bends and super-bends. This paper will discuss the accelerator physics studies of the HEPS storage ring, covering issues of lattice design, nonlinear optimization, collective effects, error correction, insertion devices, etc.

 






Slides TUZPLS2 [9.517 MB]
        
 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ https://doi.org/10.18429/JACoW-IPAC2019-TUZPLS2

 


About •
paper received ※ 15 May 2019       paper accepted ※ 23 May 2019        issue date ※ 21 June 2019
 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




