













IPAC2013 - Table of Session: WEPFI (Poster Session)


WEPFI —  Poster Session   (15-May-13   16:00—18:00)



Paper
Title
Page



WEPFI002
Acceptance Tests for the Spiral2 SC Linac RF Power Systems
2702


 

M. Di Giacomo
                       GANIL, Caen, France

 


 

Funding: This activity received founds from the EuCard RF Tech program
The Spiral2 SC linac uses solid state amplifiers ranging from 2,5 to 19 kW and external circulators to drive normal and superconducting cavities at 88.0525 MHz. The project has no manpower for in house development and all power devices are ordered to commercial companies. Robust acceptance tests have therefore been defined to check reliability with respect to our application. The papers describes the tests procedure and results on our first units.

 


 



WEPFI003
A New Timing System and Electron Gun Modulator
2705


 

A.S. Setty, A.S. Chauchat, D. Fasse, D. Jousse
                       Thales Communications & Security (TCS), Gennevilliers Cedex, France

 


 

In the last decade, Thales Communications & Security has manufactured turnkey linacs for the SOLEIL, ALBA and BESSY II synchrotrons. In the meanwhile, a new timing system and electron gun modulator was designed and a gun pulse length of 600 ps was measured. This paper will describe the system and will present the beam dynamics simulations results, comparing them with those obtained with the previous gun modulator *.
* A. Setty, "Beam dynamics of the 100 MeV preinjector for the Spanish synchrotron ALBA", PAC07, Albuquerque, USA, June 2007.

 


 



WEPFI004
Commissioning of First 352.2 MHz - 150 kW Solid State Amplifiers at the ESRF and Status of R&D
2708


 

J. Jacob, L. Farvacque, G. Gautier, M.L. Langlois, J.M. Mercier
                       ESRF, Grenoble, France

 


 

Funding: This work receives funding from the EU as work package WP7 in the FP7/CRISP project.
Four 352.2 MHz - 150 kW Solid State Amplifiers (SSA), based on the SOLEIL design and supplied by ELTA/AREVA, are in operation on the ESRF booster since April 2012. A number of interesting effects were observed during commissioning that are inherent to the combination of many RF amplifier modules at high power. While it has only little impact on the booster SSA operated in pulsed regime, some modifications were necessary for the three SSAs that will be delivered by ELTA for an operation in CW on the storage ring. In parallel, the ESRF is developing a more compact SSA using cavity combiners *) instead of the widely adopted coaxial combiner trees. The status of this R&D project will also be reported.

 


 



WEPFI005
Simulations and RF Measurements of the Fundamental and Higher Order Modes of the ThomX 500 MHz Cavity
2711


 

M. El Khaldi, I.V. Drebot, P. Lepercq, R. Marie, B. Mercier, T. Roulet, A. Variola, F. Wicek
                       LAL, Orsay, France
H.D. Dias, M.D. Diop, M.E. El Ajjouri, R. Lopes, A. Loulergue, P. Marchand, F. Ribeiro, R. Sreedharan
                       SOLEIL, Gif-sur-Yvette, France

 


 

The RF system of the ThomX* storage ring consists in a 500 MHz single cell copper cavity of the ELETTRA type, powered with a 50 kW CW solid state amplifier, and the associated Low Level RF feedback and control loops. The low operating energy of 50 – 70 MeV makes the impedances of the cavity higher order modes (HOMs) particularly critical for the beam stability. Their parasitic effects on the beam can be cured by HOM frequency shifting techniques, based on a fine temperature tuning and a dedicated plunger. A typical cavity temperature stability of ± 0.05°C within a range from 35 up to 80 °C can be achieved by a precise control of its water cooling temperature. On the other hand, the tuning of the cavity fundamental mode is achieved by changing its axial length by means of a mechanical tuner. In order to insure a fine control of the HOM frequencies, a good knowledge of their characteristics is mandatory. The main parameters of the fundamental and of the HOMs up to 4 GHz have been calculated using the HFSS and CST MWS codes. Preliminary measurements results have been obtained and show a good agreement with the simulations.
* A.Variola, “The ThomX Project”, Proceedings of IPAC2011, San Sebastián, Spain

 


 



WEPFI006
Broad and Narrow Band Feedback Systems at ELSA
2714


 

M. Schedler, F. Frommberger, P. Hänisch, W. Hillert, C. Reinsch
                       ELSA, Bonn, Germany

 


 

At the Electron Stretcher Facility ELSA of Bonn University, an upgrade of the maximum stored beam current from 20 mA to 200 mA is planned. The storage ring operates applying a fast energy ramp of 6 GeV/s from 1.2 GeV to 3.5 GeV. The intended upgrade is mainly limited due to the excitation of multibunch instabilities. As a countermeasure, we succesfully commissioned state-of-the-art bunch by bunch feedback systems in the longitudinal and the two transverse dimensions. In addition, a narrow band cavity based feedback system for damping the most harmful longitudinal multi bunch mode caused by a HOM of the accelerating cavities is under construction.

 


 



WEPFI007
Amplitude, Phase and Temperature Stabilization of the ELSA RF System
2717


 

D. Sauerland, W. Hillert, A. Roth, M. Schedler
                       ELSA, Bonn, Germany
D. Teytelman
                       Dimtel, San Jose, USA

 


 

In the stretcher ring of the accelerator facility ELSA electrons are accelerated to a maximum energy of 3.2 GeV applying a fast energy ramp of up to 6 GeV/s. In order to be able to offer higher external beam currents one has to increase the current of the internal beam in ELSA accordingly. The beam current is limited due to excitation of multi bunch instabilities which are mainly caused by higher order modes of the two PETRA cavities used for particle acceleration in the stretcher ring. To control the resonance frequency of these modes, a variable bypass of the cavities' cooling system has been installed which allows a stabilization of their temperature. With this modification, it is possible to vary the temperature of the cavities between 26 °C and 65 °C and thus to shift the higher order modes by hundreds of kHz in frequency. Additionally, first operational studies with a prototype of a FPGA based LLRF system (Dimtel) have been performed which in future will be used to stabilize the amplitude and phase of the accelerating RF fields of the cavities.

 


 



WEPFI009
RF Measurement during CW Operation of an RFQ Prototype
2720


 

M. Vossberg, H.C. Lenz, H. Podlech, A. Schempp
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany
A. Bechtold
                       NTG Neue Technologien GmbH & Co KG, Gelnhausen, Germany

 


 

A 17 MeV MHz proton linac is being developed as a front end of the driver accelerator for the MYRRHA facility in Mol. As a part of the MAX (MYRRHA Accelerator Experiment and Development) project a 4-rod Test-RFQ with a resonance frequency of 176 MHz has been designed and built for the MAX-Project. The RFQ has been modified to solve the cooling problem at cw-operation, the geometrical precision had to be improved as well as the rf-contacts. The developments led to a new layout and a sophisticated production procedure of the stems and the electrodes. Calculations show an improved Rp-value leading to power losses less than 30 kW/m, which is about 60 % of the power losses which could be achieved safely at cw-operation of the similar Saraf-RFQ. Thermal measurements and simulations with the single components has been completed. During cw-operation the temperature distribution will be measured and the rf-performance checked.

 


 



WEPFI012
Conceptual Design of ILSF RF System
2723


 

Kh.S. Sarhadi, H. Ajam, H. Azizi, M. Fereidani, M. Jafarzadeh, S. Pirani, J. Rahighi, R. Safian, A. Shahverdi
                       ILSF, Tehran, Iran

 


 

The Iranian Light Source Facility (ILSF) RF system, consisting of RF cavities, power sources and low-level RF systems, is conceptually designed in accordance with the requirements of ILSF 3GeV storage ring. To achieve the desired 400mA beam current, utilization of the existing HOM-damped cavities is explored and RF system parameters are compared based on the usage of each cavity. Moreover, the choice of solid state amplifier as the RF power source is presented with its available power and structure. This paper, furthermore, explains the conceptual design and functionality of the selected digital LLRF system.

 


 



WEPFI013
The Damped C-band RF Structures for the European ELI-NP Proposal
2726


 

D. Alesini, R. Boni, R. D. Di Raddo, V.L. Lollo, B. Spataro, C. Vaccarezza
                       INFN/LNF, Frascati (Roma), Italy
L. Ficcadenti, V. Pettinacci
                       INFN-Roma, Roma, Italy
M. Migliorati, A. Mostacci, L. Palumbo
                       URLS, Rome, Italy
L. Serafini
                       Istituto Nazionale di Fisica Nucleare, Milano, Italy

 


 

The gamma beam system of the European ELI-NP proposal foresees the use of a multi-bunch train colliding with a high intensity recirculated laser pulse. The linac energy booster is composed of 14 travelling wave C-Band structures, 1.8 m long with a field phase advance per cell of 2π/3 and a repetition rate of 100 Hz. Because of the multi-bunch operation, the structures have been designed with a damping of the HOM dipoles modes in order to avoid beam break-up (BBU). In the paper we discuss the design criteria of the structures also illustrating the effectiveness of the damping in the control of the BBU. Prototype activity is finally illustrated.

 


 



WEPFI014
Present Status and Progresses of RFQ of IFMIF/EVEDA
2729


 

R. Dima, A. Pepato, F. Scantamburlo, E. Udup
                       INFN- Sez. di Padova, Padova, Italy
F. Grespan, A. Palmieri, C. Roncolato
                       INFN/LNL, Legnaro (PD), Italy

 


 

The RFQ of IFMIF/EVEDA is designed to accelerate a 125 mA D+ beam from 0.1 MeV to 5 MeV at a frequency of 175 MHz. The production of the modules 16, 17 and 18 necessary has been completed. In this paper the progress and improvements on the production of the modules, as well the development of the brazing procedure design will be described.

 


 



WEPFI015
Design and Field Measurements of a Linear Accelerator Endowed with Single Feed with Movable Short Coupler
2732


 

M. Dal Forno, R. Vescovo
                       University of Trieste, Trieste, Italy
P. Craievich, M. Dal Forno, G. Penco
                       Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A., Basovizza, Italy
P. Craievich
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

The free electron laser performances strongly depend on the beam quality. The dipolar field present in the linac coupler causes the beam emittance degradation. This paper studies an alternative solution for reducing the dipolar field, by using a symmetrical coupler with single feed input and a movable short circuit placed on the opposite waveguide. The structure has been simulated and optimized with the Ansys HFSS simulation code. An aluminum prototype has been machined in the workshop of “Elettra - Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A.”. After matching and tuning the accelerating structure, the phase advance and the coupler field asymmetries have been measured by means of the bead-pull method and have been compared with the simulation results.

 


 



WEPFI016
Upgrade of Power Supply System for RF-Chopper At J-PARC Linac
2735


 

K. Futatsukawa, Z. Fang, Y. Fukui, M. Ikegami, T. Miyao
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
E. Chishiro, K. Hirano, Y. Ito, N. Kikuzawa, A. Miura, F. Sato, S. Shinozaki
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-mura, Japan
T. Hori
                       JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan
Y. Liu, T. Maruta
                       KEK/JAEA, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan
T. Suzuki
                       Mitsubishi Electric System & Service Co., Ltd, Tsukuba, Japan

 


 

In the J-PARC Linac, the radio frequency deflector was adopted as a chopper to capture the particles into the RF-bucket in the next synchrotron. The chopper, consists of two deflectors, was installed on the medium-energy beam-transport line. In the operation of the RF-chopper, the fast rise/fall time of the pulse is a fundamental requirement to minimize the beam loss due to insufficient deflection to some beam bunches. In the previous system, the two series-connected chopper deflectors were driven by one solid- state amplifier. However, the fall time indicated a poor result to effect the ringing into each cavity. Therefore, the additional solid-state amplifier and low level RF system were installed in the summer 2012 and the connection changed to the parallel system from the series using two amplifiers. The rise/fall time of the chopped beam, is defined as the step height of 10% and 90%, was about 20 nsec in the beam current of 15 mA and the effect of the ringing was decreased. We would like to introduce the performance of the new chopper system.

 


 



WEPFI017
Performance of Cavity Phase Monitor at J-PARC Linac
2738


 

K. Futatsukawa, S. Anami, Z. Fang, Y. Fukui, T. Kobayashi, S. Michizono
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
F. Sato, S. Shinozaki
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-mura, Japan

 


 

The amplitude and the phase stabilities of the RF system play an important role for the cavity of a high intensity proton accelerator. For the J-PARC Linac, the accelerating field ambiguity must be maintained within ±1% in amplitude and ±1 degree in phase due to the momentum acceptance of the next synchrotron. To realize the requirement, a digital feedback (FB) control is used in the low level RF (LLRF) control system, and a feed-forward (FF) technique is combined with the FB control for the beam loading compensation. The stability of ±0.2% in amplitude and ±0.2 degree in phase of the cavity was achieved including the beam loading in a macro pulse. Additionally, the cavity phase monitors, which can measure the phase difference between any two cavities, were installed in summer, 2011. The monitor has the three different types, which are for the present 324-MHz RF system, the 972-MHz RF system and the combined system of 324-MHz RF and 972-MHz RF. The phase monitor for the 324-MHz RF has been in operated since Dec. 2011. We would like to introduce the phase monitor and indicate the phase stability at the J-PARC linac.

 


 



WEPFI018
Comparison of High Gradient Performance in Varying Cavity Geometries
2741


 

T. Higo, T. Abe, Y. Arakida, Y. Higashi, S. Matsumoto, T. Shidara, T. Takatomi, M. Yamanaka
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
A. Grudiev, G. Riddone, W. Wuensch
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Four types of CLIC prototype TW accelerator structures were high-gradient tested at Nextef, KEK, up to 100 MV/m level and the fifth is under test now. The ramping speed of each processing and the resultant breakdown rate were compared among them. From this comparison, it was found that the ramping speed of the structures with opening ports for HOM damping with magnetic coupling became slow and the resultant breakdown rate became high. It was also found that that with lower surface magnetic field showed faster ramping in processing and lower breakdown rate. This indicates the role of the magnetic field on vacuum breakdowns in copper structure at the region of several tens to 100 MV/m. In this paper, we review the processing stage and the high gradient performance of these structures trying to discuss the relevant parameters, surface electric field, surface magnetic field and other parameters such as Sc, “complex pointing vector”, to the performance difference.

 


 



WEPFI019
High Power Test of Kanthal-coated L-band Lossy Cavity
2744


 

F. Miyahara, Y. Arakida, Y. Higashi, T. Higo, K. Kakihara, S. Matsumoto
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
K. Saito
                       Hitachi, Ltd., Energy and Environmental System Laboratory, Hitachi-shi, Japan
H. Sakurabata
                       Hitachi, Ltd., Power & Industrial Systems R&D Laboratory, Ibaraki-ken, Japan

 


 

We have been developing a Kanthal (Al-Cr-Fe)-coated collinear load as a possible candidate of the L-band acc. structure of SuperKEKB positron capture system. In order to achieve the higher capture efficiency comparing to that of KEKB, the upgrade of the e+ production and capture section is required. The system consists of a W target with a flux concentrator followed by acc. structures surrounded by solenoids. The increase of the e+ bunch charge and the reduction of satellite bunches are the main issues for this system. The frequency choice of L-band is based on the larger transverse and longitudinal acceptances than those of the S-band one. The load is preferable to compose the system with compact magnets and to minimize the dip in the solenoid field. The design of the load was reported in previous work*. We understand that the Kanthal-coated cell should be confirmed in high power to confirm the feasibility at our design field of 10 MV/m level. We are making a test cavity which consists of 3 cells and one of them is composed of Kanthal-coated disks to lower the intrinsic Q value from 20000 to the order of 1000. The cavity production and the experimental result will be reported.
*Development of L-band accelerating structure with Kanthal-coated collinear load for SuperKEKB, IPAC12, THLR04.

 


 



WEPFI021
Influence of Core Winding Tension and Ribbon Quality on the MA Core RF Characteristics
2747


 

M. Nomura, A. Schnase, T. Shimada, F. Tamura, M. Yamamoto
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-mura, Japan
K. Hara, K. Hasegawa, C. Ohmori, M. Toda, M. Yoshii
                       KEK, Tokai, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

J-PARC 3 GeV Rapid Cycling Synchrotron (RCS) and Main Ring (MR) employ RF cavities loaded with Magnetic Alloy (MA) cores to generate a high field gradient. To achieve the high field gradient, the core shunt impedance is a key parameter. We found during the development of MA cores for RCS RF cavities that the core shunt impedance was increased by lowering a core winding tension. We lowered the core winding tension in order to improve the electrical insulation between MA ribbon layers. The lower winding tension reduced the core filling factor that is defined as the volume ratio of MA ribbons and geometrical dimensions. The core shunt impedance might be reduced according to the core filling factor reduction. We discuss the reason why the lower winding tension increased the core shunt impedance. We also report the influence of the ribbon quality variation on the MA core RF characteristics.

 


 



WEPFI022
Inner Diameter Change over the Years of MA Cores of RF-cavities at the J-PARC 3 GeV Synchrotron
2750


 

T. Shimada, M. Nomura, F. Tamura, M. Yamamoto
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-mura, Japan
K. Hara, K. Hasegawa, C. Ohmori, M. Toda, M. Yoshii
                       KEK, Tokai, Ibaraki, Japan
A. Schnase
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
H. Suzuki
                       Japan Atomic Energy Agency (JAEA), International Fusion Energy Research Center (IFERC), Rokkasho, Kamikita, Aomori, Japan

 


 

The 11 RF cavities at the J-PARC 3 GeV synchrotron use 198 MA cores. Buckling occurred in some cores since the operation started in October 2007. We have measured the inner diameters of the cores as part of the investigation to determine the cause of buckling when the cavities were disassembled for maintenance. We obtained inner diameter change values of 36 cores over a longer than 2 years interval in the summer of 2012. We noticed deformations of the inner shapes of the cores related to the manufacturing process, and that inner diameter changes over this period were not detected in most of the cores without buckling. Furthermore, an effective core manufacturing process to avoid the buckling has been established. We are going to replace old type cores with new type cores in summer shutdown periods every year and will have finished the replacement work by the summer of 2013. We report the relation between inner shapes of the cores and the manufacturing process and inner shape changes over the years.

 


 



WEPFI023
Study on Two-cell RF-deflector Cavity for Ultra-short Electron Bunch Measurement
2753


 

Y. Nishimura, K. Sakaue, T. Takahashi, M. Washio
                       Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan
T. Takatomi, J. Urakawa
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

Funding: Work supported by JSPS Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research (A) 10001690 and the Quantum Beam Technology Program of MEXT.
We have been developing an S-band Cs-Te photocathode rf electron gun system for pulse radiolysis and laser Compton scattering experiment at Waseda University. These researches demand for high quality and well controlled electron beam. In order to measure the ultra-short electron bunch, we decided to use rf-deflector cavity, which can convert the longitudinal distribution to that of transverse. With this technique, the longitudinal bunch profile can be obtained as the transverse profile. We used the 3D electromagnetic simulation codes HFSS for designing rf deflector cavity and GPT for beam tracking. The cavity has 2 cell structures operating on π mode, standing wave, dipole (TM120) mode at 2856MHz. We have confirmed on HFSS that 2 cell rf-deflector cavity can produce 660G magnetic field per cell on beam line with 750kW input rf power. This field strength is enough for our target, which is 100fs bunch length measurement at 4.3MeV. In this conference, we will present the cavity structure design, the present progresses and future plan.

 


 



WEPFI024
Anisotropic Ferrite Magnet Focusing System for Klystrons
2756


 

Y. Fuwa, H. Ikeda, Y. Iwashita, R. Kitahara, Y. Nasu, H. Tongu
                       Kyoto ICR, Uji, Kyoto, Japan
S. Fukuda, T. Matsumoto, S. Michizono
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

The permanent magnet beam focusing for klystrons can eliminate the solenoid coil with the water cooling system and the power supply that consumes electricity. Hence the failure rate and the operating cost of RF systems should decrease. This feature is suitable for a large facility that requires a lot of klystrons such as ILC. Since the required magnetic field for klystron beam is moderate, inexpensive anisotropic ferrite magnets can be applied. The test model is fabricated for a 1.3 GHz klystron whose output power is 800 kW. Each magnet block in the model is movable for magnetic field adjustment and the iron yoke in the oil tank improves magnetic field distribution around cathode area. The result of a klystron power test will be presented.

 


 



WEPFI026
Design and Commissioning of the RF System of CYCIAE 14 Cyclotron
2759


 

Z.G. Yin, B. Ji, Y. Lei, P.Z. Li, G.F. Song, C. Wang, T.J. Zhang, Z.L. Zhao
                       CIAE, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

The RF system of CYCIAE-14 consists of a set of 20kW amplifier, two 1/4λ RF cavities connected in central region, the transmission line and a set of LLRF system. The LLRF system, based on DDS and DSP, has achieved the close-loop adjustment of accelerating voltage and the resonant frequency. The RF system design for CYCIAE-14 was started in 2010, and the fabrication of the major equipments was finished in 2011. The installation and commissioning was completed in early 2012, satisfying the design requirements. This article describes the design of the RF system, and summarizes the difficulties encountered in the process of manufacture, installation and commissioning. Some of the problems caused by the transmission line and the RF leakage are analyzed, followed by the measures taken to solve these problems.

 


 



WEPFI027
The Measurement of the Ferrite Rings for the Mass Production RF Cavity of CSNS RCS
2762


 

H. Shi, W.L. Huang, B. Jiang, X. Li, W. Long, W.Y. Song, H. Sun, J.Y. Tang, C.L. Xie, C.L. Zhang, W. Zhang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

The Rapid Cycling Synchrotron (RCS) of the China Spallation Neutron Source (CSNS) will install 8 ferrite-loaded coaxial resonant cavities. The construction and measurement of prototype cavity have been finished. Based on the existing experiences, the small inner diameter (ID) rings T500/250/25-4M2 (mm) have been adopted for the mass production RF cavity, and the test results have shown that such rings can bear more RF magnetic flux density and have lower power loss. The characteristics of 60 small ID rings have been measured with two-ring test system, and we figured out that the rings have good consistence and the shunt impedance of all rings is above 100 Ω.

 


 



WEPFI028
RF System of the CSNS Synchrotron
2765


 

H. Sun, W.L. Huang, X. Li, W. Long, H. Shi, C.L. Zhang, F.C. Zhao
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

The accelerator of China Spallation Neutron Source (CSNS) consists of a H− linac and a rapid cycling synchrotron (RCS). The protons injected into the RCS will be accelerated from 81MeV to 1.6GeV by the Ring RF system providing a maximum accelerating voltage of 165kV. The RF frequency sweeps from 1.02 MHz to 2.44 MHz. with a repetition rate of 25Hz. The ferrite-loaded RF cavities will be used in the ring RF system. Each cavity has own RF power tube amplifier, bias current supply and full digital LLRF control loops. The R&D of ring rf system have been completed, it compose of the prototypes of a full size ferrite loaded RF cavity, a high power tetrode amplifier, a switching type bias supply of 3000A and a full digital embedded controller of LLRF. CSNS ring RF system design and the results of the R&D will be described in this paper.

 


 



WEPFI030
Design Studies on NSC KIPT Electron Gun System
2768


 

Z.S. Zhou, Y.L. Chi, D.Y. He
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

In NSC KIPT, a neutron source based on a subcritical assembly driven by a 100MeV/100kW electron linear accelerator is under design and development. The linear accelerator needs a new high current electron gun. In this paper, physical design, mechanical fabrication and beam test of this new electron gun are described. The emission current is designed to be higher than 2A for the pulse width of 3us with repetition rate of 50 Hz. The gun will operate with a DC high voltage power supply which can provide up to 150 kV high voltages. Computer simulations and optimizations have been carried out in the design stage, including the gun geometry and beam transport line. The test results of high voltage conditioning and beam test are presented. The operation status of the electron gun system is also included. The basic test results show that the design, manufacture and operation of the new electron system are basically successful.

 


 



WEPFI031
Development of an X-Band Metallic Power Extractor for the Argonne Wakefield Accelerator
2771


 

J. Shi, H.B. Chen, Q. Gao, X.W. Wu, Y. Yang, H. Zha
                       TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China
W. Gai, C.-J. Jing
                       ANL, Argonne, USA

 


 

An X-band (11.7GHz) power extractor has been developed for RF power generation at Argonne Wakefield Accelerator (AWA). The structure is a 2pi/3-mode disk-loaded structure with group velocity of 22% of the speed of light and a total length of about 300mm. It is build with copper disks brazed together. This note presents the design and the fabrication of this structure, as well as the RF measurement results.

 


 



WEPFI032
New Calibration Method for Radial Line Experiment
2774


 

X.W. Wu, H.B. Chen, J. Shi, H. Zha
                       TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

A radial line experiment is proposed to test the SiC load disks of the choke-mode structure. However, the general calibration cannot work out in this situation due to lack of matched load. A new calibration method named multi-offset short calibration is proposed. The principles of the method and the calibration steps involved are presented and the results of actual experimentation are used to validate the method. The results show multi-offset short calibration is a feasible method and that this method can provide a viable calibration scheme for radial line measurements.

 


 



WEPFI033
Development of the HLS 40kW Solid State Amplifier
2777


 

L. Lin, G. Huang, C. Li, Y.T. Liu, W. Zhou
                       USTC/NSRL, Hefei, Anhui, People's Republic of China

 


 

A 40kW RF Solid State Amplifier (SSA) will replace the 25kW tetrode amplifier as the new RF power generator of HLS 800MeV electron storage ring. This SSA contains sixty-five 650W amplifier units (one unit drives sixty-four’s), with two-stage combination to reach the 40kW output. All of the components of SSA are prepared and tested, each of them meets the design requirements. The SSA has been assembled, and is in off-line testing now. The process of SSA’s design and manufacture, and the test results are presented in this paper.

 


 



WEPFI036
R&D on a Main Accelerating Section of a Compact THz-FEL
2780


 

W. Bai, M. Li, X. Shen, H. Wang, X. Yang
                       CAEP/IAE, Mianyang, Sichuan, People's Republic of China

 


 

In order to develop a tera-hertz(THz) radiation source and to make scientific researches on application of THz technology, a study on tera-hertz source is performed. The radiation source is based on technology of free electron laser(FEL). The energy booster section of the injector uses a 9 Cell standing wave accelerator as the main accelerator for the FEL. The accelerator works at S band.(2856 MHz), excited by a microwave power of about 3.5 MW. At the end of the accelerator, the high quality beam energy is of 6.5MeV ~ 7 MeV, and the current about 300 mA. This paper presents the newly prgress of the , as well as the working condition of the main accelerator.

 


 



WEPFI037
Recent Status of a C-band 2MeV Accelerator
2783


 

W. Bai
                       CAEP/IAE, Mianyang, Sichuan, People's Republic of China

 


 

In order to carry out engineering research on miniaturization of accelerator, we performs effort to develop C-band 2MeV standing wave accelerator. At present , the important progress has been achieved on the accelerator development. The accelerating tube has been fully sealed, and the hot test platform of the accelerator has been built. In condition of repetition rate of 200Hz, preliminary power test has been got through. Using ionization chamber dose monitor, we tested the dose rate of X-ray at 1m before the target. And by means of steel absorption method, we tested the energy of the electron beam. The preliminary test results are: beam energy about 2.0MeV, dose rate about 2Gy/min•m.

 


 



WEPFI038
R&D of New  C-band Accelerating Structure for SXFEL Facility
2785


 

W. Fang, Q. Gu, Z.T. Zhao
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China
L. Chen, X. Sheng
                       BVERI, Beijing, People's Republic of China
D.C. Tong
                       TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

C-band high gradient accelerating structure is crucial technology for Shanghai Soft X-ray FEL facility. Based on the prototype, the optimized C-band accelerating structure is proposed, and the experimental model is ready for high power test. In this paper, optimization design and some experiment results are presented, also design, fabrication and cold test of experimental model are introduced.

 


 



WEPFI039
New X-band Deflecting Cavity Design for Ultra-short Bunch Length Measure of FEL at SINAP
2788


 

J.H. Tan, W. Fang, Q. Gu, Z.T. Zhao
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China

 


 

For the development of Free Electron Lasers (FEL) at SINAP, ultra-short bunch is the crucial requirement for excellent lasing performance. It’s big challenge for deflecting cavity to measure the length of ultra-short bunch, and higher deflecting gradient is required for higher measurement resolution. X-band travelling wave deflecting structure has features of higher deflecting voltage and compact structure, which is good performance at ultra-short bunch length measuring. In this paper, a new X-band deflecting structure was designed, operated at HEM11- 2π/3 mode. For suppressing the polarization of deflection plane of the HEM11 mode, two symmetrical caves are added on the cavity wall to separate two polarized modes. More details of design and simulation results are presented in this paper.

 


 



WEPFI040
R&D of C-band Pulse Compression for Soft X-ray FEL at SINAP
2791


 

C.P. Wang, W. Fang, Q. Gu, W.C. Wang, Z.T. Zhao
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China

 


 

A compact Soft X-ray Free Electron Lasers facility is presently being constructed at SINAP, and 8 C-band accelerating structure unit are required for third-stage including 4 pulse compressors. The field mode of C-band SLED is TE0.1.15 with high quality factor Q, and the coupling coefficient is 8.5. Based on the design, the power pulse of klystron is compressed from 2.5μs to 0.5μs, and finally the power gain is about 3.1. In this paper, the details and simulation of 3-dB coupler, mode convertors and the resonant cavities are presented, meanwhile some cold test results of cavity are also analyzed at the end of this paper.

 


 



WEPFI041
Design of the RF System for the Accelerator Complex of Rare Isotope Science Project
2794


 

J. Han, O.R. Choi, J.-W. Kim
                       IBS, Daejeon, Republic of Korea
C.K. Hwang
                       KAERI, Daejon, Republic of Korea

 


 

The rare isotope beam facility planned in Korea utilizes superconducting linear accelerators and a cyclotron to accelerate heavy-ion and proton beams, in which an RFQ in the injection line and superconducting cavities are the main rf components. The RF systems to power the cavities and to control the system at the low level have been designed so as to acquire high-quality beam with precise controls of rf amplitude and phase. The superconducting cavity is sensitive to various perturbations like mechanical vibration and Lorentz force detuning due to narrow bandwidth. We plan to use the rf amplifier system based on solid state device for superconducting cavities, and a tetrode tube for the final stage of RF amplifier of the RFQ accelerator. An LLRF system to control the amplitude and phase, which was built and tested on a quarter-wave resonator, will be modified to control a superconducting cavity. We plan to test the LLRF system in the superconducting rf facility abroad.

 


 



WEPFI042
Installation and Operation of the RF System for the 100 MeV Proton Linac
2797


 

K.T. Seol, Y.-S. Cho, D.I. Kim, H.S. Kim, H.-J. Kwon, Y.-G. Song
                       KAERI, Daejon, Republic of Korea

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology of the Korean Government.
The RF system of the 100MeV proton linac for 1st phase of KOMAC has been installed at the Gyeong-ju site. Nine sets of LLRF control system and the HPRF system including 1MW klystrons, circulators and waveguide components have been installed at the klystron gallery, and four high voltage converter modulators has been installed at the modulator room. A RF reference system distributing 300MHz LO signal to each RF control system has also been installed with a temperature control system. The requirement of RF field control is within ± 1% in RF amplitude and ± 1 degree in RF phase, and the operation of RF system will start at the end of this year after installation. The installation and operation of the RF system for the 100MeV proton linac are presented in this paper.

 


 



WEPFI043
S-band High Stability Solid State Amplifier for 10 GeV PAL-XFEL
2800


 

W.H. Hwang, J.Y. Huang, H.-S. Kang, H.-S. Lee, W.W. Lee
                       PAL, Pohang, Kyungbuk, Republic of Korea

 


 

In PAL, We are constructing a 10GeV PxFEL project. The output power of the klystron is 80 MW at the pulse width of 4 ㎲ and the repetition rate of 60 Hz. And the specifications of the rf phase and amplitude stability are 0.05 degrees(rms) and 0.05%(rms) respectively. The SSA(Solid State Amplifier) is used for driver of 80MW Klystron. The output power of SSA is 800W. Also, the measured rf stability of SSA output is 0.03 degrees rms and 0.025 % rms. This paper describes the microwave system and the SSA for the PxFEL.

 


 



WEPFI044
High Power Test of New SLED System with Biplanar 3-dB Power Divider and Dual Side-wall Coupling Irises for PAL XFEL
2803


 

Y.D. Joo, H. Heo, W.H. Hwang, H.-S. Lee, K.M. Oh, Y.J. Park
                       PAL, Pohang, Kyungbuk, Republic of Korea

 


 

The new type of the Stanford Linear Accelerator Energy Doubler (SLED) system for the PAL (Pohang Accelerator Laboratory) XFEL (X-ray Free Electron Laser) is developed to be operated with an RF input power of 80 MW and a pulse width of 4 μs. To prevent the RF breakdown such a high power operation, a biplanar 3-dB power divider and dual side-wall coupling irises structure are used in the new SELD system. It is shown that the field gradient and surface current is reduced from that of the original SLED system using the the finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) simulation. The high power test result of the new SLED system in the PAL XFEL test facility will be presented.

 


 



WEPFI045
PAL-XFEL Accelerating Structures
2806


 

H.-S. Lee, H. Heo, J.Y. Huang, W.H. Hwang, S.D. Jang, Y.D. Joo, H.-S. Kang, I.S. Ko, S.S. Park, Y.J. Park
                       PAL, Pohang, Kyungbuk, Republic of Korea
I.S. Ko
                       POSTECH, Pohang, Kyungbuk, Republic of Korea
H. Matsumoto
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
S.J. Noh, K.M. Oh
                       Vitzrotech Co., Ltd., Ansan City, Kyunggi-Do, Republic of Korea

 


 

We need 172 accelerating structures for the PAL-XFEL 10 GeV main linac. It takes long time for these structures to be delivered. So we are trying to find suppliers of the accelerating structures. First, we made an order of 40 accelerating structures to Mitsubishi Heavy Industry (MHI), which have Quasi-type couplers to reduce the quadruple and sextuple components of the electric field in the coupling cavity. And Research Instruments (RI) has fabricated a 3m long race type accelerating structure for PAL-XFEL. Also, Vitzrotech which is a domestic company and IHEP in China are under developing accelerating structures for PAL-XFEL respectively. We will describe the current status of accelerating structures and high power test results of the newly developed structures in this paper.

 


 



WEPFI049
CoStub: A 6 1/8” Coaxial Short Circuit using Stubs
2809


 

B. Bravo, F. Mares, F. Pérez
                       CELLS-ALBA Synchrotron, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain

 


 

ALBA is a 3Gev synchrotron light source located in Barcelona and operating with users since May 2012. The ALBA storage ring uses six room temperature cavities; each one fed by two 80kW IOTs amplifiers at 499.654 MHz. The power of the pair of transmitters is combined by a cavity combiner, CaCo. The two possible operation modes of CaCo at high power have been tested. The symmetrical mode (two IOTs feed the CaCo symmetrically) works properly and without presenting any problem. But in the asymmetrical mode (one IOT feeds the CaCo and the other is keeping passive) a standing wave is created between the passive IOT and Caco, provoking a large voltage in the gap of the passive IOT that broke the ceramic. A new device, CoStub (coaxial stub), to short circuit the coaxial waveguide of the passive arm and protects the passive IOT has been built and successfully tested. This paper presents the design details and the low level and high power test of this device.

 


 



WEPFI054
Enlargement of Tuning Range in a Ferrite-tuned Cavity through Superposed Orthogonal and Parallel Magnetic Bias
2812


 

C. Vollinger, F. Caspers
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Conventional ferrite-tuned cavities operate either with bias fields that are orthogonal or parallel to the magnetic RF-field. For a cavity that tunes rapidly over an overall frequency range around 100-400 MHz with high Q, we use ferrite garnets exposed to an innovative new biasing method consisting of a superposition of perpendicular and parallel magnetic fields. This method leads to a significant enlargement of the high-Q cavity tuning range by defining an operation point close to the magnetic saturation and thus improving ferrite material behaviour. A further advantage of this technique is the fast tuning speed resulting from the fact that tuning is carried out either with pure parallel biasing, or together with a very small change of operating point from perpendicular bias. In this paper, several scaled test models of ferrite-filled resonators are shown; measurements on the set-ups are compared and discussed.

 


 



WEPFI055
Experience on Fabrication and Assembly of the First Clic Two-Beam Module Prototype
2815


 

D. Gudkov, S. Lebet, G. Riddone, F. Rossi
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
A. Samoshkin
                       JINR, Dubna, Moscow Region, Russia

 


 

The CLIC two-beam module prototypes are intended to prove the design of all technical systems under the different operation modes. Two validation programs are currently under way and they foresee the construction of four prototype modules for mechanical tests without beam and three prototype modules for tests with RF and beam. The program without beam will show the capability of the technical solutions proposed to fulfil the stringent requirements on radio-frequency, supporting, pre-alignment, stabilization, vacuum and cooling systems. The engineering design was performed with the use of CAD/CAE software. Dedicated mock-ups of RF structures, with all mechanical interfaces and chosen technical solutions, are used for the tests and therefore reliable results are expected. The components were fabricated by applying different technologies for the part manufacturing and joining. The first full-size prototype module was assembled in 2012. This paper is focused on the production process including the comparison of several technical solutions adopted during the realization. The description of the module assembly and quality control measurements are also recalled.

 


 



WEPFI056
Study of the Thermo-Mechanical Behavior of the CLIC Two-Beam Modules
2818


 

F. Rossi, R. Mondello, G. Riddone
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
D. Gudkov, A. Samoshkin
                       JINR, Dubna, Moscow Region, Russia
I. Kossyvakis
                       National Technical University of Athens, Zografou, Greece
K. Österberg
                       HIP, University of Helsinki, Finland

 


 

The final luminosity target of the Compact LInear Collider (CLIC) imposes a micron-level stability of the two-meter repetitive two-beam modules constituting the main linacs. Two-beam prototype modules have been assembled to extensively study their thermo-mechanical behaviour under different operation modes. The power dissipation occurring in the modules will be reproduced and the efficiency of the corresponding cooling systems validated. At the same time, the real environmental conditions present in the CLIC tunnel will be studied. Air conditioning and ventilation systems will be installed in the dedicated laboratory. Air temperature will be varied from 20 to 40 °C, while air flow rate will be regulated up to 0.8 m/s. During all experimental tests, the alignment of the RF structures will be monitored to investigate the influence of power dissipation and air temperature on the overall thermo-mechanical behaviour. This test program will allow for better understanding the behaviour of CLIC modules and the results will be propagated back to both numerical modelling and engineering design.

 


 



WEPFI057
Longitudinal Design and RF Stability Requirements for the SwissFEL Facility
2821


 

B. Beutner
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

The SwissFEL facility will produce coherent, bright, and short photon pulses covering a wavelength range down to an angstrom, requiring an emittance between 0.18 to 0.43 mm mrad at bunch charges between 10 pC and 200 pC. In nominal operation continuous changes in this range will be offered to the users to allow an individual tradeoff between photon power and pulse length. The facility consists of a S-band RF-gun, booster, and a C-band main linac, which accelerates the beam up to 5.8 GeV. Two compression chicanes will provide a nominal peak current of about 1 to 3 kA depending on the charge. The stability of RF systems is a key design issue for stable compression schemes at reliable user facilies. In this paper different operation modes are presented and discussed in terms of machine stability requirements.

 


 



WEPFI058
Breakdown Localization Studies on the SwissFEL C-band Test Structures
2824


 

J. Klavins, S. Dementjevs, F. Le Pimpec, L. Stingelin, M. Wohlmuther, R. Zennaro
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland
N.C. Shipman
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The SwissFEL main linac will consist of 104 C-band structures with a nominal accelerating gradient of 28MV/m. First power tests were performed on short constant impedance test-structures composed of eleven double-rounded cups. In order to localize breakdowns, two or three acoustic emission sensors were installed on the test-structures. In order to localize breakdowns we have analyzed, in addition to acoustic measurements, the delay and phase of the rf power signals. Parasitic, acoustic noise emitted from the loads of the structure complicated the data interpretation and necessitated appropriate processing of the acoustic signals. The Goals of the experiments were to identify design and manufacturing errors of the structures. The results indicate that breakdowns occur mostly at the input power coupler, as also confirmed by vacuum-events at the same location. The experiments show that the linac test-structures fulfill the requirements in breakdown probability. Moreover developing a detection system based on acoustic emission sensors for breakdown localization for our C-band structure seems reasonable given the results obtained.

 


 



WEPFI059
C-band RF Pulse Compressor for SwissFEL
2827


 

R. Zennaro, M. Bopp, A. Citterio, R. Reiser, T. Stapf
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

The SwissFEL C-band (5.712 GHz) linac consists of 28 RF modules. Each module is composed of a single 50 MW klystron feeding a pulse compressor and four two meter long accelerating structures. The pulse compressor is based on a single Barrel Open Cavity (BOC). The BOC makes use of a “whispering gallery” mode which has an intrinsically high quality factor and operates in resonant rotating wave regime; moreover, and contrary to the conventional SLED scheme, a single cavity is sufficient to define the pulse compressor, without the need for two cavities and a 3-dB hybrid. A prototype has been manufactured and successfully tested. A short description of the BOC is presented, together with the prototype design, production, low level RF measurements, and high power test.

 


 



WEPFI060
Planar Balun Design with Advanced Heat Dissipation Structure for kW Level Solid-state Amplifier Module Development
2830


 

T.-C. Yu, L.-H. Chang, M.H. Chang, L.J. Chen, F.-T. Chung, M.-C. Lin, Y.-H. Lin, Z.L. Liu, C.H. Lo, M.H. Tsai, Ch. Wang, T.-T. Yang, M.-S. Yeh
                       NSRRC, Hsinchu, Taiwan

 


 

The power level of solid-state amplifier is continuously growing for advanced accelerator application as the RF power source. Huge amount of solid-state power amplifier (SSPA) modules can contribute several hundreds of kW RF power with high redundancy and reliability. However, with the increasing desire of RF power of single RF station, too much power modules would adversely cause larger area occupation and higher maintenance cost and complexity. Therefore, with the advancement of the RF power on single SSPA, the overall system design and configuration would become much simple and compact. However, the increasing RF of single SSPA would also bring the thermal problem at its chip as well as the output power combining balun. In this paper, kW range SSPA is developed with the novel planar balun structure with good thermal expansion property. With such new planar balun design, the SSPA can operate stably with above 1kW output RF power.

 


 



WEPFI061
Petra Cavity Vacuum RF Condition with Field Balance Mechanism for TPS Storage Ring in NSRRC
2833


 

T.-C. Yu, L.-H. Chang, M.H. Chang, L.J. Chen, F.-T. Chung, M.-C. Lin, Y.-H. Lin, Z.L. Liu, C.H. Lo, M.H. Tsai, Ch. Wang, T.-T. Yang, M.-S. Yeh
                       NSRRC, Hsinchu, Taiwan

 


 

In the first stage commissioning of TPS (Taiwan Photon source) storage ring in NSRRC, two room temperature Petra cavities will be used. At this commission stage, 100mA with 950keV beam loss is estimated to have 47.5kW beam loss for each cavity. In the meanwhile, the cavity loss at the specified 1.2MV of each cavity will be about 50kW. Therefore, coupling coefficient of 2 is required. However, the initial design specification of Petra cavity has only beta of about 1.7. Hence, the modification of the input coupler is done with the enhancement of its beta as well as advanced water cooling for some heat point. Besides, due to the two-tuner system of Petra cavity, special field-balance tuner control system is also developed. In RF condition for better vacuum up to 1.4MV, some modification of the tuner mechanical structure is also done to reach high vacuum condition (lower than 5*10-9 Torr) for storage ring requirement.

 


 



WEPFI062
Precise Cavity Tuning System of a Low Output-impedance Second-harmonic Cavity at ISIS
2836


 

Y. Irie, S. Fukumoto, K. Muto, H. Nakanishi
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
D.B. Allen, D. Bayley, N.E. Farthing, I.S.K. Gardner, R.J. Mathieson, A. Seville, J.W.G. Thomason
                       STFC/RAL/ISIS, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom
J.C. Dooling, D. Horan, R. Kustom, M.E. Middendorf
                       ANL, Argonne, USA

 


 

A very low output-impedance (~35ohms) second-harmonic cavity system is being developed for high intensity proton accelerators. The final amplifier is comprised of a grounded cathode scheme with a feedback loop from anode to grid. Due to the Miller effect, the grid voltage waveform is seriously distorted even if only a few percent of sub-harmonic or higher harmonic are mixed in the generator current. Such distortion is much enhanced by the beam loading. In order to eliminate the effect of this distortion upon the phase detector used to achieve precise cavity tuning, a swept bandpass filter was applied to the grid voltage at the phase detector input. Filter design details and the result of high power tests are reported.

 


 



WEPFI063
Progress on the ISIS Synchrotron Low Power RF System Upgrade
2839


 

A. Seville, D.B. Allen, D. Bayley, N.E. Farthing, I.S.K. Gardner, R.J. Mathieson
                       STFC/RAL/ISIS, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom
W.L. Huang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

The ISIS synchrotron at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory in the UK now routinely uses a dual harmonic RF system to accelerate beam currents in excess of 230 uA to operate two target stations simultaneously. To give more stable control of the RF voltage at each of the fundamental (1RF) and second harmonic (2RF) cavities, changes have been made to the low power RF (LPRF) control systems. A new FPGA based master oscillator has been implemented using a National Instruments FlexRIO module. The replacement master oscillator has been tested with beam for the first time. This paper reports on the tests of the FlexRIO master oscillator and describes plans for the gradual replacement of the remaining parts of the LPRF system.

 


 



WEPFI064
Prototype Refinement of the VELA Transverse Deflecting Cavity Design
2842


 

P. Goudket, S.R. Buckley, L.S. Cowie, A.E. Wheelhouse
                       STFC/DL/ASTeC, Daresbury, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom
G. Burt
                       Cockcroft Institute, Lancaster University, Lancaster, United Kingdom

 


 

The Versatile Linear Accelerator (VELA) at Daresbury Laboratory will deliver low energy (5/6 MeV) short bunches (~40 fs) to a number of industrial experimental stations and for scientific research. In order to measure the longitudinal profile of the bunch an S-band transverse deflecting cavity will be inserted into the beamline. A transverse kick of around 5 MV is required therefore a 9 cell design has been chosen. As part of the design iteration a three-cell prototype has been built. Frequency measurements have been performed on the prototype cavity as well as Coordinate Measuring Machine to confirm that the dimensions are to the required design tolerances. Subsequently, further modelling has been performed to improve and refine the design of the 9-cell cavity, to ensure that the frequency of the final design is within the tuning range of the water thermal control system and that the field flatness requirement can be obtained.

 


 



WEPFI065
The Commissioning of the EBTF S-band Photoinjector Gun at Daresbury Laboratory
2845


 

A.E. Wheelhouse, R.K. Buckley, S.R. Buckley, P.A. Corlett, J.W. McKenzie, B.L. Militsyn, A.J. Moss
                       STFC/DL/ASTeC, Daresbury, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom

 


 

The first stage of the installation of the Electron Beam Test Facility (EBTF) at Daresbury Laboratory has been completed and a commissioning phase is presently underway. At the heart of the machine is a photoinjector based on a two and a half cell S-band RF gun incorporating a metallic photocathode, which is capable of delivering 4-6 MeV, low emittance, short electron pulses (10 - 250 pC). The photoinjector is driven by a UV light at 266 nm wavelength delivered by a laser system and is powered by a RF system incorporating a Low Level RF system, a high power RF modulator and a klystron. This paper describes the commissioning and conditioning of the photoinjector.

 


 



WEPFI066
The RF System for the MICE Experiment
2848


 

K. Ronald, A.J. Dick, C.G. Whyte
                       USTRAT/SUPA, Glasgow, United Kingdom
P.A. Corlett
                       STFC/DL/ASTeC, Daresbury, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom
A.J. DeMello, D. Li, S.P. Virostek
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA
A.F. Grant, A.J. Moss, C.J. White
                       STFC/DL, Daresbury, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom
P.M. Hanlet
                       IIT, Chicago, Illinois, USA
C. Hunt, K.R. Long, J. Pasternak
                       Imperial College of Science and Technology, Department of Physics, London, United Kingdom
T.H. Luo, D.J. Summers
                       UMiss, University, Mississippi, USA
A. Moretti, R.J. Pasquinelli, D.W. Peterson, R.P. Schultz, J.T. Volk
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA
P.J. Smith
                       Sheffield University, Sheffield, United Kingdom
T. Stanley
                       STFC/RAL, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom
Y. Torun
                       Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago, IL, USA

 


 

The International Muon Ionisation Cooling Experiment (MICE) is designed to demonstrate the effectiveness of ionisation cooling to reduce the phase space footprint of a muon beam, principally to allow the subsequent acceleration of muons for next generation colliders and/or neutrino factories. The experiment (and indeed any subsequent accelerator cooling channel based on the same principles) poses certain unusual requirements on its RF system, whilst the precision measurement of the ionisation cooling process demands special diagnostics. This paper shall outline the key features of the RF system, including the LLRF control, the power amplifier chain, distribution network, cavities, tuners and couplers, all of which must operate in a high magnetic field environment. The RF diagnostics which, in conjunction with the other MICE diagnostics, shall allow detailed knowledge of the amplitude and phase of the acceleration field during the transit of each individual Muon shall also be outlined.

 


 



WEPFI067
FETS RF System Design and Circulator Testing
2851


 

S.M.H. Alsari, J.K. Pozimski, P. Savage
                       Imperial College of Science and Technology, Department of Physics, London, United Kingdom
M. Dudman, A.P. Letchford
                       STFC/RAL, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom

 


 

The Front End Test Stand (FETS) is an experiment based at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory (RAL) in the UK. In this experiment, the first stages necessary to produce a very high quality, chopped H− ion beam as required for the next generation of high power proton accelerators (HPPAs) are designed, built and tested. HPPAs with beam powers in the megawatt range have many possible applications including drivers for spallation neutron sources, neutrino factories, accelerator driven sub-critical systems, waste transmuters and tritium production facilities. RF system outline and design options of the waveguide and coaxial parts and shielding are presented and discussed in this paper. Experimental measurements of the system’s circulator will be presented as part of the system testing results.

 


 



WEPFI070
Design of RFQ Coupler for PXIE Project
2854


 

S. Kazakov, T.N. Khabiboulline, V. Poloubotko, O. Pronitchev, V.P. Yakovlev
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Design of new coupler for PXIE RFQ is reported. Two couplers are supposed to deliver ~ 100 kW total CW RF power to RFQ at 162.5 MHz. Coupler has a magnetic loop coupling with the RFQ. Nevertheless it allows to apply a HV bias to suppress a multipactor due to original design of the coupling loop. Results of RF, multipactor and thermal simulations are presented.

 


 



WEPFI072
Analysis of Breakdown Damage in an 805 MHz Pillbox Cavity for Muon Ionization Cooling R&D
2857


 

D.L. Bowring, D. Li
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA
A. Moretti, Y. Torun
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

When operating in multi-Tesla solenoidal magnetic fields, normal-conducting cavities exhibit RF breakdown at anomalously low gradients. This breakdown behavior may be due to field-emitted electrons, focused by the magnetic field into "beamlets" with relatively large current densities. These beamlets may then cause pulsed heating and cyclic fatigue damage on cavity interior surfaces. If this model is correct, materials with long radiation lengths (relative to copper) may alleviate the problem of RF breakdown in strong magnetic fields. To study this phenomenon, RF breakdown was induced on pairs of "buttons" in an 805 MHz pillbox cavity. The shape of the buttons creates a local enhancement of the surface electric field, such that breakdown occurs preferentially on the button surface. Beryllium and copper buttons were tested in order to evaluate the effect of radiation length on RF breakdown performance. This poster presents an analysis of the damage to these buttons and suggests a path forward for future materials R&D related to breakdown in strong magnetic fields.

 


 



WEPFI073
A Modular Cavity for Muon Ionization Cooling R&D
2860


 

D.L. Bowring, A.J. DeMello, A.R. Lambert, D. Li, S.P. Virostek, M.S. Zisman
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA
C. Adolphsen, L. Ge, A.A. Haase, K.H. Lee, Z. Li, D.W. Martin
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA
D.M. Kaplan
                       Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago, Illinois, USA
T.H. Luo, D.J. Summers
                       UMiss, University, Mississippi, USA
A. Moretti, M.A. Palmer, R.J. Pasquinelli, Y. Torun
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA
R.B. Palmer
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

The Muon Accelerator Program (MAP) collaboration is developing an ionization cooling channel for muon beams. Ionization cooling channel designs call for the operation of high-gradient, normal-conducting RF cavities in multi-Tesla solenoidal magnetic fields. However, strong magnetic fields have been shown to limit the maximum achievable gradient in RF cavities. This gradient limit is characterized by RF breakdown and damage to the cavity surface. To study this issue, we have developed an experimental program based on a modular pillbox cavity operating at 805 MHz. The modular cavity design allows for the evaluation of different cavity materials - such as beryllium - which may ameliorate or circumvent RF breakdown triggers. Modular cavity components may furthermore be prepared with different surface treatments, such as high-temperature baking or chemical polishing. This poster presents the design and experimental status of the modular cavity, as well as future plans for the experimental program.

 


 



WEPFI074
RF Cavity Spark Localization Using Acoustic Measurement
2863


 

P. Snopok
                       IIT, Chicago, Illinois, USA
A.D. Bross
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA
P.G. Lane, Y. Torun
                       Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago, Illinois, USA

 


 

Current designs for muon cooling channels require high-gradient RF cavities to be placed in solenoidal magnetic fields in order to contain muons with large transverse emittances. It has been found that doing so reduces the threshold at which RF cavity breakdown occurs. To aid the effort to study RF cavity breakdown in magnetic fields it would be helpful to have a diagnostic tool which can detect breakdown and localize the source of the breakdown inside the cavity. We report here on progress towards developing a diagnostic tool for detecting and localizing sparks in an RF cavity by using piezoelectric transducers.

 


 



WEPFI075
Design of the FRIB RFQ
2866


 

N.K. Bultman, G. Morgan, E. Pozdeyev, Y. Yamazaki, Q. Zhao
                       FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA
J. Stovall, L.M. Young
                       TechSource, Santa Fe, New Mexico, USA

 


 

Funding: This material is based upon work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science under Cooperative Agreement DE-SC0000661
FRIB linac driver includes a front end and a SRF linac for all stable ion beams with energy more than 200 MeV/u, and beam power on target up to 400 kW. A 80.5 MHz FRQ at the front end accelerates heavy ion beams from 12 keV/u to 0.5 MeV/u, in CW mode. Design of the RFQ is introduced and several important technical issues are discussed in this paper.

 


 



WEPFI076
Experience with a 5 kW, 1.3 GHz Solid State Amplifier
2869


 

K.M.V. Ho, R. Eichhorn, D.L. Hartill, M. Liepe
                       CLASSE, Ithaca, New York, USA

 


 

This study describes the experience with and performance of a commercially available 1.3 GHz 5kW Solid State Amplifier in various experiments at Cornell University. This paper focuses on several key factors in testing the performance of the amplifier. Among those are phase and amplitude stability, gain linearity, and phase shift vs. power. High power amplifiers are usually built with multiple RF power modules and the individual output signals are then combined in a power combiner. Therefore, the phases of the individual RF output power signals have to be adjusted within tight tolerances. The relative phases can be affected by different lengths cables and also affect the overall gain performance of the amplifier.

 


 



WEPFI077
LLNL X-band Test Station Status
2872


 

R.A. Marsh, F. Albert, G.G. Anderson, S.G. Anderson, C.P.J. Barty, E.T. Dayton, S.E. Fisher, D.J. Gibson, F.V. Hartemann, S.S.Q. Wu
                       LLNL, Livermore, California, USA

 


 

Funding: This work performed under the auspices of the U.S. Department of Energy by Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory under Contract DE-AC52-07NA27344
In support of Compton scattering gamma-ray source efforts at LLNL, a multi-bunch test station is being developed to investigate accelerator optimization for future upgrades. This test station will enable work to explore the science and technology paths required to boost the current mono-energetic gamma-ray technology a higher effective repetition rate, potentially increasing the average gamma-ray brightness by two orders of magnitude. The test station will consist of a 5.5 cell X-band rf photoinjector, single accelerator section, and beam diagnostics. Detailed design of the test station including is complete, and will be presented with modeling simulations and future upgrade paths. The current status of the installation will also be discussed with future commissioning plans.

 


 



WEPFI078
LLNL X-band RF System
2875


 

R.A. Marsh, G.G. Anderson, S.G. Anderson, C.P.J. Barty, S.E. Fisher, D.J. Gibson, F.V. Hartemann
                       LLNL, Livermore, California, USA

 


 

Funding: This work performed under the auspices of the U.S. Department of Energy by Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory under Contract DE-AC52-07NA27344
An X-band test station is being developed at LLNL to investigate accelerator optimization for future upgrades to mono-energetic gamma-ray technology at LLNL. The test station will consist of a 5.5 cell X-band rf photoinjector, single accelerator section, and beam diagnostics. The high power RF for the test station will be provided by a SLAC XL4 11.424 GHz klystron driven by a ScandiNova solid state modulator. The high power system has been installed and results of initial testing into high power loads will be presented. Performance of the system with respect to processing and stability will be discussed as well as future plans for the low level RF system.

 


 



WEPFI079
Electromagnetic Modeling of RF Drive in the LANSCE DTL
2878


 

S.S. Kurennoy
                       LANL, Los Alamos, New Mexico, USA

 


 

A 3D electromagnetic model of the RF drive module in the LANSCE DTL tank 4 has been developed with the CST MicroWave Studio. The model is explored both with eigensolver and in time domain to evaluate maximal fields in the drive module and RF coupling. Here we describe the model and present simulation results.

 


 



WEPFI080
Waveguide Component R&D for the ILC
2881


 

C.D. Nantista, C. Adolphsen, G.B. Bowden, A.A. Haase, B.D. McKee, F.Y. Wang
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy under contract DE-AC02-76SF00515.
Several years of effort have gone into refining the design of the International Linear Collider. The direction the design has evolved in response to driving considerations has resulted in a more sophisticated waveguide system for delivering RF power to the cavities. In particular, the desire to eliminate parallel service tunnels along the main linacs led to the proposal of the Klystron Cluster Scheme (KCS)*, involving plumbing the combined power from groups of klystrons down from the surface at several locations in overmoded waveguide. Additionally, to increase superconducting cavity yield, the acceptance criteria were relaxed to encompass a ±20% range in sustainable operating gradient, which must be accommodated by tailoring of the RF power distribution. Designs and prototype testing of some of the novel waveguide components developed to allow these changes are described here.
* Christopher Nantista and Chris Adolphsen, “Klystron Cluster Scheme for ILC High Power RF Distribution,” presented at the 2009 Particle Accel. Conf., Vancouver, B.C., Canada, May 2009.

 


 



WEPFI081
High Power Tests of Overmoded Waveguide for the ILC Klystron Cluster Scheme
2884


 

F.Y. Wang, C. Adolphsen, C.D. Nantista
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

A Klystron Cluster Scheme has been proposed for the ILC Main Linacs in which the output power of up to thirty, 10 MW, 1.3 GHz klystrons are combined in a single, 0.5 m diameter circular waveguide in a surface building and transported down to and along the accelerator tunnel where it is periodically tapped-off to power strings of cavities. This schemes eliminates the need for a separate linac service tunnel and simplifies the linac electric and cooling distribution systems. Recently, a 40 meter long circular waveguide with a coaxial input coupler and a 90 degree rf bend were assembled and run in a resonant configuration to test the concept. With the pipe pressurized with up to 30 psig of N2 to raise the rf breakdown threshold, it was demonstrated that field levels equal to those for the 300 MW transmission required for ILC could be sustained reliably. We report on these and other test results from this program.

 


 



WEPFI082
Double-tip Magnetic Field Enhancement
2887


 

F.Y. Wang, L. Xiao
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

The local electric field enhancement factor β in an rf accelerator cavity has been studied experimentally for decades and found to be in the range from few tens up to few hundreds for various rf frequencies and materials. A large field enhancement factor is usually thought to come from sharp tips whose β is roughly the ratio of their height to their tip radius. For a β of few hundred, the corresponding tip height would need to be more than 10 microns, which should be visible in a scanning electron microscope (SEM). However, the estimated β from SEM images of cavity surfaces is around 10. Therefore, the physics of such large β values is still not clear. In this paper, we have studied differentμstructures and found that the magnetic field could be enhanced many times in the presence of two nearby tips with β of 10. The large local magnetic field enhancement could lead to large enhanced pulsed heating and thus could melt surface in a very short time and form a liquid Taylor cone.

 


 



WEPFI083
High Power Tests of the 2-Pin Waveguide Structures
2890


 

F.Y. Wang, Z. Li
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

An X-band Two-Pin Waveguide Structure has been designed to study the influence of power flow on rf breakdown. Three different sets of pins will be tested at SLAC. These sets were designed to achieve a similar peak surface electric field on one of the pins for input rf power levels that vary by about an order of magnitude (the other pin is used for matching). Two sets of pins have been tested so far, and the breakdown rate was found to be strongly dependent on the power flow. In this paper, we review the experimental setup, the complete set of results and their implications.

 


 



WEPFI084
High Power S-band RF Window Optimized to Minimize Electric and Magnetic Field on the Surface
2893


 

A.D. Yeremian, V.A. Dolgashev, S.G. Tantawi
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Funding: * Work Supported by Doe Contract No. DE-AC02-76SF00515
RF windows are used to separate vacuum from atmosphere in high power microwave systems, such as klystrons. RF breakdowns in these megawatt power environments are frequent and problematic. And S-band RF window was designed to have reduced electric and magnetic field in the ceramic and waveguide joints. Specifically the normal component of the electric field on the ceramic is minimized and a traveling wave is created inside the ceramic by optimizing the shape of the window and the geometry of the joint between the circular waveguide to the rectangular waveguide. A prototype of this window in the process of being made at SLAC for high power tests.

 


 



WEPFI085
Source and Extraction for Simultaneous Four-hall Beam Delivery System at CEBAF
2896


 

R. Kazimi, J. Hansknecht, M. Spata, H. Wang
                       JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA

 


 

Funding: Authored by Jefferson Science Associates, LLC under U.S. DOE Contract No. DE-AC05-06OR23177.
A new design for simultaneous delivery of the electron beam to all four 12 GeV CEBAF experimental halls* requires a new 750 MHz RF separator system in the 5th pass extraction region, a 250 MHz repetition rate for its beams, and addition of a fourth laser at the photo-cathode gun. The proposed system works in tandem with the existing 500 MHz RF separators and beam repetition rate on the lower passes. The new 5th pass RF separators will have the same basic design but modified to run at 750 MHz. The change to the beam repetition rate will be at the photo-cathode gun through an innovative upgrade of the seed laser driver system using electro-optic modulators. The new laser system also allows addition of the fourth laser. The new RF separators, the new laser system and other hardware changes required to implement the Four-Hall operation delivery system will be discussed in this paper.
* Simultaneous Four-Hall Operation for 12 GeV CEBAF, Proceedings of this conference.

 


 



WEPFI086
Normal Conducting Radio Frequency X-band Deflecting Cavity Fabrication, Validation and Tuning
2899


 

R.B. Agustsson, L. Faillace, A.Y. Murokh, E. Spranza, S. Storms
                       RadiaBeam, Santa Monica, USA
D. Alesini
                       INFN/LNF, Frascati (Roma), Italy
V.A. Dolgashev, J.R. Lewandowski
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA
J.B. Rosenzweig
                       UCLA, Los Angeles, California, USA
V. Yakimenko
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

An X-band Traveling wave Deflector mode cavity (XTD) has been developed, fabricated, tuned and characterized by Radiabeam Technologies to perform longitudinal measurement of the sub-picosecond ultra-relativistic electron beams. The device is optimized for the 100 MeV electron beam parameters at the Accelerator Test Facility (ATF) at Brookhaven National Laboratory, and is scalable to higher energies. The XTD is designed to operate at 11.424 GHz, and features short filling time, femtosecond resolution, and a small footprint. RF design, structure fabrication, cold testing and tuning results are presented.

 


 



WEPFI088
High-power Tests of an Ultra-high Gradient Compact S-band (HGS) Accelerating Structure
2902


 

L. Faillace, R.B. Agustsson, P. Frigola, A.Y. Murokh, S. Seung
                       RadiaBeam, Santa Monica, USA
S.G. Anderson
                       LLNL, Livermore, California, USA
V.A. Dolgashev
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA
J.B. Rosenzweig
                       UCLA, Los Angeles, California, USA
V. Yakimenko
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

RadiaBeam Technologies reports on the RF design, fabrication and high-power tests of a ultra-high gradient S-Band accelerating structure (HGS) operating in the pi-mode at 2.856 GHz. The compact HGS structure offers a drop-in replacement for conventional S-Band linacs in research and industrial applications such as drivers for compact light sources, medical and security systems. The electromagnetic design (optimization of the cell shape in order to maximize RF efficiency and minimize surface fields at very high accelerating gradients) has been carried out with the codes HFSS and SuperFish while the thermal analysis has been performed by using the code ANSYS. The high-power conditioning was carried out at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL).

 


 



WEPFI089
High Gradient Normal Conducting Radio-frequency Photoinjector System for Sincrotrone Trieste
2905


 

L. Faillace, R.B. Agustsson, H. Badakov, P. Frigola
                       RadiaBeam, Santa Monica, USA
F. Cianciosi, P. Craievich, M. Trovò
                       Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A., Basovizza, Italy
A. Fukasawa, J.B. Rosenzweig, A. Yakub
                       UCLA, Los Angeles, California, USA

 


 

Radiabeam Technologies, in collaboration with UCLA, presents the development of a high gradient normal conducting radio frequency (NCRF) 1.6 cell photoinjector system for the Sincrotrone Trieste facility. Designed to operate with a 120MV/m accelerating gradient, this single feed, fat lipped racetrack coupler design is modeled after the LCLS photoinjector with a novel demountable cathode which permits cost effective cathode exchange. Full overview of the project to date and installation at Sincrotrone Trieste will be discussed along with basic, design, engineering and manufacturing.

 


 



WEPFI090
An X-band Dielectric-based Wakefield Power Extractor
2908


 

C.-J. Jing, S.P. Antipov, A. Kanareykin, P. Schoessow
                       Euclid TechLabs, LLC, Solon, Ohio, USA
M.E. Conde, W. Gai, J.G. Power
                       ANL, Argonne, USA
V.A. Dolgashev, J.R. Lewandowski, S.G. Tantawi, S.P. Weathersby
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA
I. Syratchev
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Funding: US DoE SBIR Phase II project under Contract#DE-SC0004322
An X-band dielectric-based wakefield power extractor is under development to function as a high power rf source primarily for Two Beam Accelerator applications. A low surface electric field to gradient ratio and low fabrication cost are two main advantages of the dielectric-loaded accelerating/decelerating structure. We have designed a 12 GHz dielectric-based power extractor that has similar performance parameters to the CLIC PETS (23 mm beam channel, 240 ns pulse duration, 135 MW output per structure) using the CLIC drive beam. In order to study potential rf breakdown issues, as a first step we built a 11.424 GHz dielectric-based power extractor scaled from the 12 GHz design. A high power rf test will be conducted using the SLAC 11.424 GHz high power rf source in Dec. 2012. Results of the high power testing will be reported. Meanwhile, the 12 GHz fully featured dielectric power extractor is also under construction; construction progress and bench tests will be discussed.

 


 



WEPFI091
Design of a Normal-conducting RF-dipole Deflecting Cavity
2911


 

T.H. Luo, D.J. Summers
                       UMiss, University, Mississippi, USA
D. Li
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA

 


 

In this paper we present a novel design of a CW normal conducting RF deflecting cavity. The cavity is designed into a dipole-like structure, resulting a high (R/Q)transverse. The geometry at high H field is optimized to lower the surface peak power. We will show the design of a 325 MHz and 163 MHz cavity based on this structure and compare their performances with their superconducting counterparts.

 


 



WEPFI092
Multipacting Simulation of the MICE 201 MHz RF Cavity
2914


 

T.H. Luo, D.J. Summers
                       UMiss, University, Mississippi, USA
D.L. Bowring, A.J. DeMello, D. Li, P. Pan, S.P. Virostek
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA
L. Ge
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

The international Muon Ionization Cooling Experiment (MICE) aims to demonstrate transverse cooling of muon beams by ionization. The MICE ionization cooling channel requires eight 201-MHz normal conducting RF cavities to compensate for the longitudinal beam energy loss in the cooling channel. Multipacting is a resonant electron discharge produced by the synchronization of emitted electrons with the RF fields, which can cause breakdown at high power RF operation. In this paper, we present the study of the multipacting effect in the MICE 201 MHz cavities with the SLAC ACE3P code. The simulation is carried out in the cavity body, the RF coupler region, and the coaxial waveguide, with the external magnetic field from the Coupling Coil. We will identify potential RF breakdowns due to multipacting and propose a solution to suppress them.

 


 




