













IPAC2014 - Table of Session: WEZA (Invited Oral Presentations, Circular and Linear Colliders)


WEZA —  Invited Oral Presentations, Circular and Linear Colliders   (18-Jun-14   14:00—15:00)
Chair: Y. Kobayashi, KEK, Ibaraki, Japan


Paper
Title
Page



WEZA01
Towards an International Linear Collider: Experiments at ATF2
1867


 

K. Kubo
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

For linear colliders, realizing extremely small and stable beam is essentially important. At ILC (International Linear Collider), designed vertical beam size and required position stability at the interaction point is nanometer level. In ATF (Accelerator Test Facility) at KEK, study of the final focus system has been performed using small emittance beams extracted from the damping ring. The project is called ATF2. The ATF2 beam line is designed as a prototype of the final focus system of ILC, with basically the same optics, similar beam energy spread, natural chromaticity and tolerances of magnetic field errors. Its design, construction and operation have been performed as an international collaboration. We have demonstrated the local chromatic correction method, which will be used in ILC, and observed the vertical beam size about 55 nm. Test and demonstration of intra-pulse orbit feedback has been successfully performed in the middle of the ATF2 beam line. For demonstration of nm level stable beam, high resolution beam position monitors were installed around the focal point. Here, we report our achievement, status and future plans.

 






Slides WEZA01 [1.453 MB]
        
 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ https://doi.org/10.18429/JACoW-IPAC2014-WEZA01

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



WEZA02
A Staged Muon Accelerator Facility for Neutrino and Collider Physics
1872


 

J.-P. Delahaye
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA
C.M. Ankenbrandt, S. Brice, A.D. Bross, D.S. Denisov, E. Eichten, S.D. Holmes, R.J. Lipton, D.V. Neuffer, M.A. Palmer
                       Fermilab, Batavia, Illinois, USA
S.A. Bogacz
                       JLab, Newport News, Virginia, USA
P. Huber
                       Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Blacksburg, Virginia, USA
D.M. Kaplan, P. Snopok
                       Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago, Illinois, USA
H.G. Kirk, R.B. Palmer
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA
R.D. Ryne
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the U.S. Dept. of Energy under contracts DE-AC02-07CH11359 and DE-AC02-76SF00515
Muon-based facilities offer unique potential to provide capabilities at both the Intensity Frontier with Neutrino Factories and the Energy Frontier with Muon Colliders. They rely on a novel technology with challenging parameters, for which the feasibility is currently being evaluated by the Muon Accelerator Program (MAP). A realistic scenario for a complementary series of staged facilities with increasing complexity and significant physics potential at each stage has been developed. It takes advantage of and leverages the capabilities already planned for Fermilab, especially the strategy for long-term improvement of the accelerator complex being initiated with the Proton Improvement Plan (PIP-II) and the Long Baseline Neutrino Facility (LBNF). Each stage is designed to provide an R&D platform to validate the technologies required for subsequent stages. The rationale and sequence of the staging process and the critical issues to be addressed at each stage, are presented.

 






Slides WEZA02 [27.263 MB]
        
 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ https://doi.org/10.18429/JACoW-IPAC2014-WEZA02

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




