













IPAC2014 - Table of Session: MOZA (Invited Oral Presentations, Beam Dynamics and Electromagnetic Fields)


MOZA —  Invited Oral Presentations, Beam Dynamics and Electromagnetic Fields   (16-Jun-14   14:00—15:00)
Chair: O. Boine-Frankenheim, GSI, Darmstadt, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



MOZA01
Ultralow Emittance Beam Production based on Doppler Laser Cooling and Coupling Resonance
28


 

A. Noda, M. Nakao
                       NIRS, Chiba-shi, Japan
M. Grieser
                       MPI-K, Heidelberg, Germany
Z.Q. He
                       FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA
Z.Q. He
                       TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China
K. Jimbo
                       Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan
H. Okamoto, K. Osaki
                       HU/AdSM, Higashi-Hiroshima, Japan
A.V. Smirnov
                       JINR, Dubna, Moscow Region, Russia
H. Souda
                       Gunma University, Heavy-Ion Medical Research Center, Maebashi-Gunma, Japan
H. Tongu
                       Kyoto ICR, Uji, Kyoto, Japan
Y. Yuri
                       JAEA/TARRI, Gunma-ken, Japan

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Advanced Compact Accelerator Development project by MEXT of Japan. It is also supported by GCOE project at Kyoto University, “The next generation of Physics-Spun from Universality"
Doppler laser cooling has been applied to low-energy (40 keV) Mg ions together with the resonant coupling method* at the S-LSR at ICR, Kyoto University,. The S-LSR storage ring has a high super periodicity of 6, which is preferable from the beam dynamical point of view. At S-LSR one dimensional ordering of proton beam was already realized for the first time**. Active three dimensional laser cooling has been experimentally demonstrated for ions with un-negligible velocity (v/c=0.0019, where c is the light velocity) for the first time. Utilizing the above mentioned characteristics of S-LSR, an approach to realize ultralow emittances has been pursuit. To suppress heating effects, due to intra-beam scattering, the circulating ion beam intensity was reduced by scraping and beam emittances of 1.3·10-11 pi m·rad and 8.5·10-12 pi m·rad (normalized) have been realized for the horizontal and vertical directions, respectively with the 40 keV Mg ion beam at a beam intensity of ~104, which is the lowest emittance ever attained by laser cooling. From MD computer simulations, it is predicted that reduction of the ion number to about 103 is needed to realize a crystalline string.
* H. Okamoto, A.M. Sessler, D. Moehl, Phys. Rev. Lett. 72, 397 (1994).  ** T. Shirai et. al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 204801 (2007).  

 






Slides MOZA01 [13.336 MB]
        
 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ https://doi.org/10.18429/JACoW-IPAC2014-MOZA01

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



MOZA02
Advanced RF Design and Tuning Methods of RFQ for High Intensity Proton Linacs
34


 

A. France
                       CEA/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France

 


 

The injector of high intensity linacs includes a Radio Frequency Quadrupole (RFQ) which must sustain high surface fields and thermal effects while accelerating intense low energy beams. For this purpose, the modelisation, realisation and tuning of accurate field laws is mandatory to preserve beam emittances and minimize beam losses. This presentation reviews the progress of advanced methods for the RF design, RF measurements during fabrication and final tuning of RFQ for high intensity linacs. It reports the ongoing developments on the injectors of high intensity demonstrators and of the linacs under construction such as SPIRAL2, LINAC4 or IFMIF-EVEDA.

 






Slides MOZA02 [2.026 MB]
        
 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ https://doi.org/10.18429/JACoW-IPAC2014-MOZA02

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




