













IPAC2014 - Table of Session: TUZA (Invited Oral Presentations, Synchrotron Light Sources and FELs)


TUZA —  Invited Oral Presentations, Synchrotron Light Sources and FELs   (17-Jun-14   14:00—15:00)
Chair: I.S. Ko, PAL, Pohang, Kyungbuk, Republic of Korea


Paper
Title
Page



TUZA01
Advanced Concepts and Challenges in Compton Radiation Sources
928


 

I. Pogorelsky
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

Ongoing developments in Compton radiation sources are aimed toward a diversity of potential applications, ranging from university-scale compact x-ray light sources and metrology tools for EUV lithography, to positron sources for e−e+ colliders. Novel conceptual approaches are pursued on different routes: One research direction lies in multiplying the source’s repetition rate and increasing its average brightness by placing the point of Compton interaction inside an optical cavity. High-gradient plasma-wakefield accelerators are fast becoming a practical reality, offering a new paradigm to compact all-optical Compton sources operating in x-ray- and gamma-regions. Continuing improvement in the quality of the beam of plasma accelerators promises the achievement of fully coherent Compton x-rays, thereby prompting the evolution of the Compton source to an all-optical free-electron laser.

 






Slides TUZA01 [22.419 MB]
        
 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ https://doi.org/10.18429/JACoW-IPAC2014-TUZA01

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



TUZA02
THz Facility at ELBE: A Versatile Test Facility for Electron Bunch Diagnostics on Quasi-CW Electron Beams
933


 

M. Gensch, B.W. Green, J. Hauser, S. Kovalev, M. Kuntzsch, U. Lehnert, P. Michel, R. Schurig
                       HZDR, Dresden, Germany
A. Al-Shemmary, V. B. Asgekar, T. Golz, H. Schlarb, N. Stojanovic, S. Vilcins
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany
A.S. Fisher
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA
G. Geloni
                       XFEL. EU, Hamburg, Germany
A.-S. Müller, M. Schwarz
                       KIT, Karlsruhe, Germany
N.E. Neumann, D. Plettemeier
                       TU Dresden, Dresden, Germany

 


 

At the Helmholtz-Zentrum Dresden-Rossendorf near Dresden a quasi-cw low-energy electron linear accelerator based on superconducting radiofrequency technology is operated successfully for more than 10 years. The ELBE accelerator is driving several secondary radiation sources including 2 infrared free electron lasers. A new addition will be a THz facility that aims to make use of super-radiant THz radiation. In its final form the THz facility shall consist of one coherent diffraction radiator and one undulator source which provide high-field THz pulses at unprecedented repetition rates. While the medium term goal is to establish a unique user facility for nonlinear THz science, the THz sources are already used as a test facility for novel diagnostic techniques on quasi-cw electron beams. The progress of the developments is reported and an outlook into future challenges and opportunities is given.

 






Slides TUZA02 [3.041 MB]
        
 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ https://doi.org/10.18429/JACoW-IPAC2014-TUZA02

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




