














IPAC2022 - Table of Session: FRCPLGD (Closing Plenary)


FRCPLGD —  Closing Plenary   (17-Jun-22   12:00—12:30)
Chair: H. Tanaka, RIKEN SPring-8 Center, Hyogo, Japan


Paper
Title
Page



FRCPLGD1
Synchrotron Light Illuminates the Origin of the Solar System
 


 

T. Nakamura, M. Matsumoto
                       Tohoku University, Graduate School of Science, Sendai, Japan
S. Tachibana
                       The University of Tokyo, Graduate School of Science, Tokyo, Japan
S. Tachibana, Y. Tsuda
                       ISAS/JAXA, Kanazawa, Japan
A. Tsuchiyama
                       Ritsumeikan University, Kusatsu, Shiga, Japan
S. Watanabe
                       Nagoya University, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan

 


 

Synchrotron radiation (SR) is unraveling the mystery in the origin of the solar system and life. After a long solitary voyage, Hayabusa2, the successor to Hayabusa, has brought us a capsule carrying scientifically precious samples. Hayabusa achieved the world’s first sample return of materials from an asteroid. Asteroid 162173 Ryugu was the new target of Hayabusa2. It is considered rich in water and organic matter from the birth of the solar system about 4.6 billion years ago. How was our solar system born, and where did the organic matter that constitutes life form? To get the clues, Hayabusa2 landed on Ryugu and successfully collected soil samples. SPring-8 and other SR facilities are now preparing to analyze Hayabusa2’s samples. The state-of-the-art analysis technologies with high sensitivity, resolution, and precision using the brilliant SR will reveal the materials on the asteroid Ryugu opening the door to unveil the origin of the solar system. This talk will be presenting the outline of the Hayabusa project, the progress of sample analysis and other scientific programs, and future perspective.

 






Slides FRCPLGD1 [12.955 MB]
        
 


Cite •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




