













IPAC2013 - Table of Session: TUYB2 (Invited Oral Presentations (Particle Sources and Alt. Acc. Techniques))


TUYB2 —  Invited Oral Presentations (Particle Sources and Alt. Acc. Techniques)   (14-May-13   11:00—12:30)
Chair: C.-X. Tang, TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China


Paper
Title
Page



TUYB201
Advances in Beam-driven-plasma Accelerators
 


 

M.J. Hogan
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported in part by the U.S. Department of Energy under contract number DE-AC02-76SF00515.
High-current high-energy particle beams can be generated at high repetition rates with good electrical efficiency making them well suited as drivers for wakefield accelerators. High-gradient wakefield accelerators operating with multi-GeV/m fields use dielectrics and plasmas as energy transformers to convert these high-current low-energy beams to relatively low-current high-energy beams in a short distance with high electrical efficiency. Further, the high-frequencies and compact dimensions of these accelerators naturally result in high-brightness beams with potential applications in future light sources and colliders. The latest results in beam-driven dielectric and plasma acceleration will be reviewed, with particular emphasis on recent results from the FACET facility at SLAC. Prospects for future developments, including proton driven plasma wakefield accelerations experiments at CERN will also be discussed.

 






Slides TUYB201 [23.602 MB]
            
 


 



TUYB202
The Road to Achieving Ultra-low Emittance of a Photocathode RF Gun
 


 

W.-H. Huang
                       TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

This talk should provide a review of the physics and technologies of low emittance photocathode rf guns, and focus on the studies on how to get an ultra low emittance electron beam from a photocathode rf gun, such as the understanding of the photocathode thermal emittance, technologies to achieve high gradient.

 






Slides TUYB202 [48.357 MB]
            
 


 



TUYB203
Dielectric Optical Accelerator-based Free Electron Lasers
 


 

J.B. Rosenzweig
                       UCLA, Los Angeles, California, USA

 


 

Advances in dielectric based optical accelerators have led to a new initiative to build and demonstrate a compact free electron laser based on this technology. The so called GV-per-­meter AcceLerator And X-­ray-­source Integrated Experiment (GALAXIE) has been launched to demonstrate the technology from the beam source, the accelerator structure, the required lasers, and finally the optical undulator required to generate the shortwave length required for this FEL. This presentation should provide a comprehensive overview of the above.

 






Slides TUYB203 [22.757 MB]
            
 


 




