













IPAC2013 - Table of Session: TUPWO (Poster Session)


TUPWO —  Poster Session   (14-May-13   16:00—18:00)



Paper
Title
Page



TUPWO001
A New 5BA Low Emittance Lattice for Sirius
1874


 

L. Liu, N. Milas, A.H.C. Mukai, X.R. Resende, A.R.D. Rodrigues, F. H. de Sá
                       LNLS, Campinas, Brazil

 


 

Sirius is a third-generation low emittance synchrotron light source under construction at LNLS, the Brazilian Synchrotron Light Laboratory. A new 5BA lattice was designed in replacement for the previous TBA lattice with the aim to reduce the emittance to sub-nm.rad values. The new design has a circumference of 518 m with 20 achromatic straight sections and a natural emittance of 0.28 nm.rad at 3 GeV for the bare lattice (without IDs). The dipoles combine low 0.58 T field magnets for the main beam deflection with a 2 T short superbend magnet sandwiched in the center dipole. This creates a longitudinal dipole gradient that is used both to lower the emittance and to provide hard X-ray dipole sources.

 


 



TUPWO003
CLIC 3 TeV Beam Size Optimization with Radiation Effects
1877


 

O.R. Blanco, P. Bambade
                       LAL, Orsay, France
R. Tomás
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Horizontal beamsize contribution due to radiation on bending magnets is calculated using theoretical results and recent improvements in mapclass (Mapclass2). In order to verify the code and validity of its approximations, a simple lattice with no geometrical nor chromatic aberrations, one dipole and a final drift has been used to compare Mapclass2 calculations and Placet tracking results. CLIC 3TeV lattice is optimized including the radiation effects. Current results show that correction of chromatic aberrations impose constraints in radiation improvement.

 


 



TUPWO004
Preliminary Design of a 4 MW Proton Beam Switchyard for a Neutrino Super Beam Production Facility
1880


 

E. Bouquerel, M. Dracos, F.R. Osswald
                       IPHC, Strasbourg Cedex 2, France

 


 

Funding: European Commission Framework Programme 7 Design Study: EUROnu, Project Number 212372.
The feasibility of the distribution of 4 MW proton beam power onto a 4-targets horn system for neutrino super-beams production is discussed. A preliminary solution using a pair of bipolar kickers to route the beam onto the targets at a repetition rate of 50 Hz (12.5 Hz per beam line) is proposed. Compensating dipoles would apply symmetry in the system. Magnetic fields induced by these optical elements would not exceed 0.96 T. Studies of the beam envelopes with the code TRANSPORT suggest the use of three quadrupoles per beam line located after the dipoles to focus the 4 mm σ beam onto each target. The length of this switchyard system is estimated to be 29.9 m and 3 m radius.

 


 



TUPWO005
Survey of Beam Optics Solutions for the MLS Lattice
1883


 

M. Ries, J. Feikes, T. Goetsch, G. Wüstefeld
                       HZB, Berlin, Germany

 


 

The Metrology Light Source (MLS) is an electron storage ring containing 24 quadrupole magnets which can be powered individually. Fully exploring the capabilities of the machine optics by tracking or experiment would be very time consuming. Therefore the quadrupoles were combined in five families and a numerical brute force approach was used to scan for areas of stable solutions in the scope of linear beam optics. In order to get information on the expected beam lifetimes for each generated optics, a model for the Touschek lifetime was implemented. Simulation results as well as experimental tests of selected optics will be presented.

 


 



TUPWO006
Orbit Correction System at the Collector Ring
1886


 

A. Dolinskyy, O. Chorniy, O.E. Gorda, A.G. Kalimov, H. Leibrock, S.A. Litvinov, M. Steck
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

The CR is dedicated ring for cooling of hot beam coming either from the antiproton separator or SFRS. It is anticipated that the understanding and control of the beam orbits will be important for achieving low beam losses. We describe our plans for measuring and correcting the COD of the CR. The closed orbit of the CR, which is distorted due to magnets misalignments, can reduce the ring acceptance by factor of 2, if a special correction system is not applied. The system, which is developed for the CR should be periodically or manually invoked to correct the global closed orbit and used to adjust the orbit position at some point using local bump. BPM and corrector magnets, which are planned to be used at the CR, are described in this paper. SVD method is used to obtain the corrector strength or corrector factors in global or local orbit correction.

 


 



TUPWO007
Investigation of the Magnetic Chicane of the New Short-Pulse Facility  at the DELTA Storage Ring
1889


 

R. Molo, J.A. Grewe, H. Huck, M. Huck, M. Höner, S. Khan, A. Schick, P. Ungelenk
                       DELTA, Dortmund, Germany

 


 

Funding: Supported by DFG, BMBF, and the Federal State NRW.
The new short-pulse facility at DELTA (a 1.5-GeV synchrotron light source) based on coherent harmonic generation (CHG) utilizes an electromagnetic undulator which can be configured as optical klystron (undulator – chicane – undulator). To optimize the CHG signal, the energy modulation of the electrons in the first undulator and the dispersion of the magnetic chicane (i.e. the R56 matrix element) have to be optimized. Since the R56 value of the present chicane is not sufficient, it is planned to rewire the magnetic coils to create a more efficient chicane. Simulations of the present chicane will be compared to measurements of the R56 matrix element and a new chicane configuration will be presented which increases the R56 value by a factor of ten.

 


 



TUPWO008
High-Current Beam Transport Simulations Including Gabor Lenses in Varying Non-Neutral Plasma States
1892


 

M. Droba, H. Dinter, O. Meusel, D. Noll, U. Ratzinger, K. Schulte
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany

 


 

The Gabor space charge lens has theoretically and experimentally been investigated at IAP for many years. Especially the application in high current, Low Energy Beam Transport (LEBT) sections seems efficient and attractive. The focusing properties and imaging quality of this lens type depend on the transverse and longitudinal confinement of the electron column. Different non-neutral plasma states have been observed and calculated. In general, they can be disturbed by the interaction with ion beams. This results in a shift and in a modification of the work function with a rise of aberrations and beam emittance growth. It is necessary to understand such processes for transport channels using intense ion beams to preserve the high beam brilliance. The beam transport simulations including Gabor lenses in various non-neutral plasma states will be presented and compared with experimental results.

 


 



TUPWO009
Decoupling Capabilities Study of the Emittance Transfer Section
1895


 

C. Xiao, O.K. Kester
                       IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany
L. Groening, O.K. Kester, M.T. Maier
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

Flat beams are those which feature unequal emittances in the horizontal and vertical phase space. The present paper is on the planning of the experimental proof of principle. Detailed simulations of the experiment, initially based on linear matrix transformations, are performed. The remarkable flexibility of the set-up w.r.t. to decoupling is addressed, as it can provide an one-knob tool to set the horizontal and vertical emittance partitioning. It was found that the decoupling capability of the set-up is remarkably flexible and the impact and discussion of this finding is treated in a dedicated section

 


 



TUPWO010
Optimal Twiss Parameters for Emittance Measurement in Periodic Transport Channels
1898


 

N. Golubeva, V. Balandin, W. Decking
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

From the point of view of the optimality criteria introduced in *, we study in this paper the procedure of emittance measurement in periodic beam transport channels.
* V.Balandin, W.Decking, N.Golubeva. “Invariant Criteria for the Design of Multiple Beam Profile Emittance and Twiss Parameters Measurement Sections”, These Proceedings. 

 


 



TUPWO011
Invariant Criterion for the Design of Multiple Beam Profile Emittance and Twiss Parameters Measurement Sections
1901


 

V. Balandin, W. Decking, N. Golubeva
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

By studying errors in the reconstructed beam parameters as functions of the errors in the beam size measurements, we introduce an optimality criteria which can be used for the design and comparison of multiple beam profile emittance and Twiss parameters measurement sections and which is independent from the position of the reconstruction point.

 


 



TUPWO012
Relations Between Projected Emittances and Eigenemittances
1904


 

V. Balandin, W. Decking, N. Golubeva
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

We give necessary and sufficient conditions which two sets of positive real numbers must satisfy in order to be realizable as eigenemittances and projected emittances of a beam matrix. The information provided by these conditions sets limits on what one can to achieve when designing a beam line to perform advanced emittance manipulations (for example, round-to-flat beam transformations).

 


 



TUPWO013
Non-linear Beam Transport Optics for a Laser Wakefield Accelerator
1907


 

C. Widmann, V. Afonso Rodriguez, T. Baumbach, A. Bernhard, N. Braun, B. Härer, P. Peiffer, R. Rossmanith, W. Werner
                       KIT, Karlsruhe, Germany
O. Jäckel, M. Kaluza, M. Reuter
                       HIJ, Jena, Germany
M. Kaluza, M. Nicolai, T. Rinck, A. Sävert
                       IOQ, Jena, Germany
M. Scheer
                       HZB, Berlin, Germany

 


 

Funding: This work is funded by the German Federal Ministry for Education and Research under contract no. 05K10VK2 and no. 05K10SJ2
The transport and matching of electron beams generated by a Laser Wakefield Accelerator (LWFA) is a major challenge due to their large energy spread and divergence. The divergence in the range of one milli-radian at energies of some 100 MeV calls for strong focusing magnets. At the same time a chromatic correction of the magnets is needed due to the relative energy spread of a few percent. This contribution discusses in particular the layout of the beam transport optics for a diagnostic beam-line at the LWFA in Jena, Germany. The aim of this optics is to match the betatron functions and the non-zero dispersion to the x-dependent flux density amplitude of a non-planar undulator such that monochromatic undulator radiation is generated despite the large energy spread. The transport line is realized as a dogleg chicane involving several strong focusing quadrupoles. The chromatic error is compensated by additional sextupoles. To keep the setup as compact as possible the magnets are designed as combined function magnets. In this contribution the design and optimization of the transport optics, as well as its realization are presented.

 


 



TUPWO014
Downscaling the Energy of the MAMI-B Cascade Towards 100 MeV
1910


 

M. Dehn, K. Aulenbacher, K.-H. Kaiser, H.-J. Kreidel, V. Schmitt
                       IKP, Mainz, Germany

 


 

Funding: Work supported by DFG (CRC 443/1044) and the German federal state of Rheinland-Pfalz
New experiments could benefit from energies of ~100 MeV, significantly lower than 180 MeV which is the lowest energy routinely available with the microtron cascade of MAMI-B. This article describes the difficulties which arise due to the drastically reduced injection energy of the first microtron (RTM-1) and presents the results of the beam tests which have been performed. We suggest a new beam extraction system from RTM-2 which will avoid these problems.

 


 



TUPWO015
Off-Energy Injection Into Newsubaru
1913


 

Y. Shoji
                       LASTI, Hyogo, Japan
Y. Minagawa, Y. Takemura
                       JASRI/SPring-8, Hyogo-ken, Japan

 


 

NewSUBARU is temporarily operated in non-achromatic mode for the research using chromaticity modulation. At this special mode, a normal injection scheme does not work because of the larger stored beam size and smaller ring acceptance. In order to obtain good injection efficiency, which enables top-up operation, the injected beam energy is displaced from the ring energy. The finite dispersion of 1.1 m at the injection point and the energy displacement of 0.7% reduce the betatron oscillation amplitude of the injected beam. A trade off is a synchrotron oscillation produced by the energy mismatch. Using this technique, it became possible to inject new beam using a closed fast injection bump and also a top-up operation. Although it is not possible to inject beam to a normal achromatic lattice using a closed bump. Especially in non-achromatic quasi-isochronous ring, it would be possible that the energy mismatch is reduced by the betatron amplitude dependent shift of the equilibrium energy.

 


 



TUPWO016
Beam Dynamics Design of 3 MeV Medium Energy Beam Transport for Beam Intensity Upgrade of J-PARC Linac
1916


 

T. Maruta
                       KEK/JAEA, Ibaraki-Ken, Japan
M. Ikegami
                       J-PARC, KEK & JAEA, Ibaraki-ken, Japan

 


 

The J-PARC linac has a plan to upgrade its beam power in the summer 2013. This plan includes the replacement of the front-end components (ion source and 3 MeV RFQ) to increase the peak current from present 30 mA to 50 mA. Since it results in the different injection beam profile to medium energy beam transport (MEBT), which locates the RFQ downstream, we designed the beam dynamics of MEBT. In this presentation, we disscuss the new design of beam dynamics in MEBT.

 


 



TUPWO017
Simulation on the Breaking of αx Multiknob Orthogonality in the Presence of Gradient and Coupling Errors and Experimental Investigation
1919


 

S. Bai, J. Gao
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China
P. Bambade
                       LAL, Orsay, France
G.R. White
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

The ATF2 project is the final focus system prototype for ILC and CLIC linear collider projects, with a purpose to reach a 37nm vertical beam size at the interaction point. In beam tuning towards the goal beam size, the presence of a tilt of the IP Shintake monitor fringe pattern with respect to the x-y coordinate system of the beam can break the orthogonality in the main σ34 and σ32 waist corrections required to reduce the vertical beam size at IP. Concerning the method of doing αx scan and measuring the vertical beam size to diagnose the IPBSM fringe tilt or residual σ13, one thing should be studied is to check what could break the orthogonality of the αx knob other than σ13 and the IPBSM fringe tilt. In this paper, we report on the simulation study that check for the breaking of orthogonality of the αx knob in the presence of gradient and coupling errors; to what extent this breaking of orthogonality can go; and also calculate the IPBSM fringe tilt angle from experiment results.

 


 



TUPWO019
A Local Achromatic Design of C-ADS MEBT2
1922


 

H. Geng, Z. Guo, Z. Li, C. Meng, S. Pei, J.Y. Tang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

The accelerator of China Accelerator Driven Sub-critical system consists of two injectors to ensure its high reliability. The Medium Energy Beam Transport line-2 is an essential part of the accelerator to transport and match the beam from either injector to the main linac. This paper presents a local achromatic design, which uses four bending magnets, for CADS MEBT2. It is found that both transverse and longitudinal emittance growths can be well controlled below 15% from MEBT2 entrance to the exit of the following superconducting spoke-021 section. The beam dynamics of MEBT2 will be discussed and the multi-particle tracking results will also be shown.

 


 



TUPWO020
Error Analysis for C-ADS MEBT2
1925


 

H. Geng, Z. Guo, Z. Li, C. Meng, S. Pei, J.Y. Tang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

A local achromatic scheme has been developed for C-ADS MEBT2. This paper presents the error analysis results for this MEBT2 scheme. The effects of magnet and cavity misalignment, static and dynamic errors of electric and magnetic field, the displacement of the input beam as well as the initial mismatches of the incoming beam will be studied. Beam trajectory correction scheme will also be discussed.

 


 



TUPWO022
Space Charge Effects Study and Optimization in CSNS/LRBT
1928


 

Z.P. Li, N. Huang, W.B. Liu, S. Wang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

The linac to ring beam transport line (LRBT) of China Spallation Neutron Source (CSNS) connecting the linac and the rapid cycling synchrotron (RCS) transports 80 MeV negative hydrogen ions (H−) beams for RCS injection. Space charge effect in LRBT is significant due to small emittance and high current density of the beam, which is a major cause of emittance growth and beam loss. An achromatic transverse optical matching was performed by TRACE 3D code. Emittance growths of beams with different initial distributions in different LRBT lattices were studied separately. Simulation results show that the LRBT design with triplet can mitigate the emittance growth by lattice optimization of the front matching section and no beam loss occurs at 15mA. The location and parameters of the debuncher in LRBT were also optimized to reduce the momentum spread and energy jitter.

 


 



TUPWO023
Parasitic Slow Exraction of Extremely Weak Beam From a High-intensity Proton Rapid Cycling Synchroton
1931


 

Y. Zou, H.T. Jing, C. Meng, J.Y. Tang, Z. Yang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

This paper proposes a new method to extract extremely weak beam from a high-intensity proton rapid cycling synchrotron in the parasitic mode, while maintaining the normal fast extraction. The usual slow extraction from a synchrotron by third-order resonance method cannot be applied in a RCS due to very short flat-top at the extraction energy. This is even more difficult when it is high-intensity synchrotron due to the strict control on beam loss. The parasitic slow extraction method to extract extremely weak beam from the RCS of CSNS has been studied in details. By moving only beam halo to a scatting foil in the arc region by a local orbit bump in about 2 ms before the fast extraction, one can extract a very small part of the scattered particles with very limited beam loss in the process. At 1.6 GeV and 62.5 A in beam power, halo particles of about 10-4 total particles are involved in the parasitic slow extraction can result in a beam intensity of 2105 protons per cycle or lower. Detailed studies including scattering effect in the foil, orbit bumps by bump magnets and energy displacement by adjusting RF, and multi-particle simulations by ORBIT and TURTLE codes are presented.

 


 



TUPWO024
The Study of a  Calculation Method for Measurement of  Diagnostic Neutral Beam Property
1934


 

L.Z. Liang, C.D. Hu, J.L. Wei
                       ASIPP, Hefei, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: Supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant No. 11075183.
Considering the beam divergence and the convergence of the spherical electrode, the beam transmission model is presented, and the variation of beam edge is described by a formula, which is used to calculate the beam divergence half-angle with the experimental data obtained by the thermocouples. Assuming the beam divergence half-angle is constant in space and time, the beam profile distribution formula and variation of beam axial intensity are introduced. Taking the HT-7 Diagnostic Neutral Beam (DNB) as a reference, the divergence half-angle is calculated for the neutral beam shot 60901. The 1/e half-width of beam at collimation target calculated by formula is in agreement with that of experimental data. Variation of beam edge and axial intensity with downstream distance is estimated for HT-7 diagnostic neutral beam.

 


 



TUPWO029
Beam Line Design at the CAEP THz Free Electron Laser
1937


 

P. Li, W. Bai, H. Wang
                       CAEP/IAE, Mianyang, Sichuan, People's Republic of China
X. Li
                       TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

China Academy of Physics (CAEP) is currently building a THz Free Electron Laser (THz-FEL) which serves as a radiation light sourse used for research in a variety of experimental fields. In this paper, we present the design of the beam line, which was accomplished using PARMELA and TRANSPORT code simulations. The accelerator consists of a 350 kV photocathode DC gun in conjunction with one cryomodule containing two 4-cell superconductiong RF cavities. The energy of the elctron beam is 7~8 MeV, and the maximum of the average beam current is 5 mA. A transverse emittance typically below 10 pi mm.mrad can be achieved.

 


 



TUPWO030
Beam-based Alignment Simulation on Flash-I Undulator
1940


 

D. Gu, Q. Gu, D. Huang, M. Zhang, M.H. Zhao
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China
M. Vogt, N.J. Walker
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

In order to ensure the SASE process can take place in the whole FLASH-I undulator section, a straight beam trajectory is mandatory which can only be achieved through beam-based alignment (BBA) method based on electron energy variations. In this paper, a detailed result of simulation is presented which demonstrate that the alignment can be achieved within accuracy of a few 10 μm after several iterations. The influence of Quadrupole and BPM offsets, magnet-mover calibration errors, quadrupole gradient errors are also discussed.

 


 



TUPWO031
Double-mini-beta Optics for the SSRF Storage Ring
1943


 

S.Q. Tian, B.C. Jiang, M.Z. Zhang, Z.T. Zhao
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China

 


 

The two long straight sections of the SSRF storage ring will be installed by dual canted in-vacuum insertion devices in the near future. In order to get high brightness and maintain good machine performance, the vertical beta function must be reduced by a triplet of quadrupole between the two source points, which is the so-called double-mini-beta optics. We have designed this kind of optics for SSRF, and the results are presented in this paper.

 


 



TUPWO033
Effects Estimation of Superconducting Wiggler in SSRF
1946


 

Q.L. Zhang, B.C. Jiang, S.Q. Tian, W.Z. Zhang, Z.T. Zhao
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China

 


 

Superconducting wiggler (SW) may greatly impact on the beam dynamics in a storage ring. The effects of a 4.5T SW has been studied in SSRF including impaction on the emittance and the energy spread. To keep an undegraded storage ring performance, a local achromatic lattice is considered. The combat between the damping effect of the SW and emittance growth of local achromatic lattice is the main concern of this paper. Other effects (tune shift, beta beating, dynamics aperture, etc.) with the SW are also simulated and optimized in this paper.

 


 



TUPWO034
Focusing Magnetic Field Design for a FEL Linac
1949


 

Q.S. Chen, Q. Fu, T. Hu, B. Qin, B. Wu, H. Zeng
                       HUST, Wuhan, People's Republic of China
J. Li, Y.J. Pei
                       USTC/NSRL, Hefei, Anhui, People's Republic of China

 


 

A linac-based Free Electron Laser is planned to be built in Huazhong University of Science and Technology (HUST). As an important part of the whole project, the focusing magnetic field is carefully designed. Space-charge force is calculated at first to give a rough evaluation about the focusing field. Start-to-end simulation shows that the magnetic field has only great effect on spot size and phase space. With the final designed field, 10-ps-length pulse containing 200pC electrons can be got and the corresponding RMS emittance and RMS radius are 7 πmm•mrad and 0.25 mm, respectively. Finally, a new idea (double-peak scheme) is discussed and excitation current is proposed as the evaluation index.

 


 



TUPWO035
Physical Design of Beam Transport Line of a Compact Terahertz FEL
1952


 

H. Zeng, Q.S. Chen, Q. Fu, B. Qin, B. Wu, Y.Q. Xiong
                       HUST, Wuhan, People's Republic of China
G. Feng, Y.J. Pei
                       USTC/NSRL, Hefei, Anhui, People's Republic of China

 


 

The single pass, linac-based compact terahertz source at HUST is now in the physical design stage. To match Twiss parameters and dispersion function of the electron beam at the undulator entrance and get smaller beta function in the whole line, several lattices based on the double bending achromat(DBA) structure were discussed and the optimized design is given with beam dynamics results–calculated by MAD and Trace 3D.

 


 



TUPWO037
Design Study of the Low Energy Beam Transport System at RISP
1955


 

E.-S. Kim
                       KNU, Deagu, Republic of Korea
J. Bahng
                       Kyungpook National University, Daegu, Republic of Korea
J. Qiang
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA

 


 

We present the design status of LEBT for the RISP that consists of two 90 degree dipoles, a multi-harmonic buncher, pair solenoids, electrostatic quadrupoles and a high voltage platform. After ECR-IS with an energy of 10 keV/u, heavy-ion beams are selected by achromatic bending systems and then be bunched in the LEBT. A multi-harmonic buncher is used to achieve a small longitudinal emittance in the RFQ. We show the results on the optics design by using the TRANSPORT code and the beam tracking of two-charge beams by using the code IMPACT. We present the results and issues on beam dynamics simulaitons in the designed LEBT system.

 


 



TUPWO038
Start-to-end Simulations for Heavy-ion Accelerator of RISP
1958


 

E.-S. Kim, S.W. Jang
                       KNU, Deagu, Republic of Korea
J. Bahng, J.G. Hwang
                       Kyungpook National University, Daegu, Republic of Korea
B. Choi, D. Jeon, H.J. Kim, H.J. Kim
                       IBS, Daejeon, Republic of Korea

 


 

RAON has been designed as a facility for rare isotope accelerator at Korea. The aceelerator consists of 28 GHz superconducting ion source, LEBT, RFQ, MEBT, superconducting linac and HEBT. The linac accelerates ion beams to 200 MeV/u with a beam power of 400 kW. Start-to-End simulations are performed from ECR-IS to HEBT and the detailed beam simulation results are presented. The beam dynamics issues are also discussed.

 


 



TUPWO040
Asymmetric Energy Colliding Ion Beams in the EDM Storage Ring
1961


 

I. Koop
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

A possibility to bent equally two counter rotating ion beams by the crossed electric and magnetic fields is investigated. The first beam is polarized and its spin precession is adjusted to be synchronous with the velocity vector precession (a frozen spin method). The counter rotating unpolarized ion beam travels along the same orbit but with different velocity. Sensitive SQUID-type BPMs measure the vertical orbit difference of two beams. Later on this information is used to distinguish the EDM signal from the magnetic moment precession. Application of this approach to search of the EDM for proton, deuteron and helion is discussed.

 


 



TUPWO041
Beam Size and Emittance Measurements during the ALBA Booster Ramp
1964


 

U. Iriso, G. Benedetti
                       CELLS-ALBA Synchrotron, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain

 


 

The beam emittance in the ALBA Booster is damped from 50·10-6 m*rad to 10-9 m*rad during the energy acceleration from 110 MeV to 3 GeV. The synchrotron radiation monitor installed in a dipole magnet provides the transverse beam size evolution along the energy ramp, which is then used to calculate the emittance evolution during the full booster cycle (from injection to extraction). In this report, we present the experimental set-up and technique of this measurement, and discuss the agreement between the measured parameters and theoretical values.

 


 



TUPWO042
Modeling Results from Magnetic and Beam Based Measurements of the ALBA Gradient Dipoles
1967


 

X. Gavaldà
                       SOLEIL, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
G. Benedetti, J. Marcos, Z. Martí
                       CELLS-ALBA Synchrotron, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain

 


 

The ALBA lattice is a DBA-like structure where most of vertical focusing is provided by gradient dipoles. In the first year of machine operation, the model parameters describing the focusing strength of the 32 dipoles have been calibrated by fitting the measured closed orbit response matrix. The mean k-value obtained from this analysis differs by -0.3% with respect to the value taken from the magnetic measurements previous to the magnet installation, while the k variation within the 32 dipoles is of the same order of magnitude. The optics results (tunes, beta beating, dispersion) obtained with the beam based model are compared with the predicted ones from the magnetic measurement model.

 


 



TUPWO046
The ESS Linac Simulator: A First Benchmark with TraceWin
1970


 

E. Laface, M. Eshraqi, R. Miyamoto
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden

 


 

The ESS Linac Simulator, ELS, will be the core of the online model used in the normal operations of the ESS linac. ESS Linac Simulator will operate through the eXtensible Accelerator Language, XAL, in order to provide an effective interface capable to simulate and predict the beam dynamics of the accelerator. The ELS is capable of simulating the dynamics of the beam envelope in both transverse and longitudinal planes in real time. In order to validate the effectiveness of the physics implemented, the ELS calculations are here benchmarked with TraceWin: the simulation code used for the design of the accelerator.

 


 



TUPWO047
Preliminary Results of Linear Optics From Orbit Response in the CERN PSB
1973


 

M.J. McAteer, C. Carli, B. Mikulec, R. Tomás
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
M. Aiba
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

Funding: This research project is supported by a Marie Curie Early Initial Training Network Fellowship of the European Community's Seventh Framework Programme under contract number (PITN-GA-2011-289485-OPAC)
Future operations for the CERN accelerator complex will require the PS Booster to deliver higher intensity beam without increasing emittances, and having an accurate knowledge of the machine’s lattice imperfections will be necessary. We present preliminary results of the analysis of orbit response measurements in the PS Booster to determine the linear optics and to identify field errors in each of the machine’s four rings.

 


 



TUPWO048
Understanding the Tune, Coupling, and Chromaticity Dependence of the LHC on Landau Octupole Powering
1976


 

E.H. Maclean, M. Giovannozzi, W. Herr, Y.I. Levinsen, G. Papotti, T. Persson, P. Skowroński, R. Tomás, J. Wenninger
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

During the 2012 LHC run there were several observations of unexpectedly large shifts to the tune, chromaticity, and coupling which were correlated with changes in the powering of Landau octupoles (MO). Understanding the chromaticity dependence is of particular importance given it's influence on instabilities. This paper summarizes the observations and our attempts to-date to understand the relationship between Q, Q', c- and the MO powering.

 


 



TUPWO049
Automatic Correction of Betatron Coupling in the LHC using Injection Oscillations
1979


 

T. Persson, T. Bach, D. Jacquet, V. Kain, Y.I. Levinsen, E.H. Maclean, M.J. McAteer, P. Skowroński, R. Tomás, G. Vanbavinckhove
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
R. Miyamoto
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden

 


 

The control of the betatron coupling at injection and during the energy ramp is critical for the safe operation of the tune feedback and for the dynamic aperture. In the LHC every fill is preceded by the injection of a pilot bunch with low intensity. Using the injection oscillations from the pilot bunch we are able to measure the coupling at each individual BPM. The measurement is used to calculate a global coupling correction. The correction is based on the use of two orthogonal knobs which correct the real and imaginary part of the difference resonance term f1001, respectively. This method to correct the betatron coupling has been proven successful during the normal operation of the LHC. This paper presents the method used to calculate the corrections and its performance.

 


 



TUPWO050
Commissioning and Operation at β* = 1000 m in the LHC
1982


 

H. Burkhardt, T. Persson, R. Tomás, J. Wenninger
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
S. Cavalier
                       LAL, Orsay, France

 


 

We have developed a special optics with a β* of 1000 m for two interaction regions (IR1 and IR5) in the LHC, to produce very low divergence beams required for elastic proton-proton scattering. We describe the design, commissioning and operation of this optics in the LHC. The β* of 1000 m was reached by de-squeezing the beams using 17 intermediate steps beyond the β* of 90 m, which had been the previous highest β* value reached in the LHC. The optics was measured and the beta beating globally corrected to a level of 10 per cent.

 


 



TUPWO051
Geometry and Optics of the Electrostatic ELENA Transfer Lines
1985


 

G. Vanbavinckhove, W. Bartmann, F. Butin, O. Choisnet
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
R.A. Baartman
                       TRIUMF, Vancouver, Canada
D. Barna, H. Yamada
                       University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan

 


 

The future ELENA ring at CERN will decelerate the AD antiproton beam further from 5.3 MeV to 100 keV kinetic energy, to increase the efficiency of antiproton trapping. At present there are four experimental areas in the AD hall which will be complemented with the installation of ELENA by additional three experiments and an additional source for commissioning. This paper describes the optimisation of the transfer line geometry, ring rotation and source position. The optics of the transfer lines and error studies to define field and alignment tolerances are shown, and the optics particularities of electrostatic elements and their optimisation highlighted.

 


 



TUPWO054
Recent Results from the EMMA Experiment
1988


 

B.D. Muratori, J.K. Jones
                       STFC/DL/ASTeC, Daresbury, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom
R. Appleby, J.M. Garland, H.L. Owen
                       UMAN, Manchester, United Kingdom
J.S. Berg, F. Méot
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA
C.S. Edmonds, J.K. Jones, I.W. Kirkman, B.D. Muratori, A. Wolski
                       Cockcroft Institute, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom
C.S. Edmonds, I.W. Kirkman, A. Wolski
                       The University of Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom
D.J. Kelliher, S. Machida
                       STFC/RAL/ASTeC, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom
J. Pasternak
                       STFC/RAL, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom
J. Pasternak
                       Imperial College of Science and Technology, Department of Physics, London, United Kingdom

 


 

EMMA (Electron Model for Many Applications) is a prototype non-scaling electron FFAG hosted at Daresbury Laboratory. After a recent demonstration of acceleration in the serpentine channel, the injected EMMA beam was further studied. This entails the continuation of the exploration of the large transverse and longitudinal acceptance and the effects of slower integer tune crossing on the betatron amplitude. A single closed orbit correction that is effective at multiple momenta (and hence over a significant range in tune space) was implemented. A comparison with a detailed model based on measured field maps, and the experimental mapping of the machine by relating the initial and final phase space coordinates was also done. These recent results together with more practical improvements such as injection orbit matching with real-time monitoring of the coordinates in the transverse phase space will be reported in this paper.

 


 



TUPWO055
Phase Rotation Experiment at EMMA for testing Applicability of a Non-scaling FFAG for PRISM System
1991


 

B.D. Muratori, J.K. Jones
                       STFC/DL/ASTeC, Daresbury, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom
R.T.P. D'Arcy
                       UCL, London, United Kingdom
J.K. Jones, B.D. Muratori
                       Cockcroft Institute, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom
D.J. Kelliher, S. Machida
                       STFC/RAL/ASTeC, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom
H.L. Owen
                       UMAN, Manchester, United Kingdom
J. Pasternak
                       STFC/RAL, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom
J. Pasternak
                       Imperial College of Science and Technology, Department of Physics, London, United Kingdom

 


 

EMMA is the world’s first non-scaling FFAG, based at Daresbury Laboratory. EMMA has a very large acceptance and has demonstrated acceleration in the serpentine channel. PRISM (Phase Rotated Intense Slow Muon source) is a next generation muon to electron conversion experiment aiming to obtain intense quasi-monochromatic low energy muon beams by performing RF phase rotation in an FFAG ring. Current baseline design for PRISM applies the scaling FFAG ring, but an alternative machine could be based on a ns-FFAG principle. As the transverse-longitudinal coupling is present in ns-FFAGs due to a natural chromaticity, its effect on the final energy spread and beam quality needs to be tested. In order to gauge the expected results, an experiment was designed to be performed on EMMA. We report here the details of this experiment and the results gathered from EMMA operation.

 


 



TUPWO056
Modelling of the EMMA ns-FFAG Ring using GPT
1994


 

R.T.P. D'Arcy
                       UCL, London, United Kingdom
J.K. Jones, B.D. Muratori
                       STFC/DL/ASTeC, Daresbury, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom
S.B. van der Geer
                       Pulsar Physics, Eindhoven, The Netherlands

 


 

EMMA (Electron Machine with Many Applications) is a prototype non-scaling Fixed-Field Alternating Gradient (ns-FFAG) accelerator whose construction at Daresbury Laboratory, UK, was completed in the autumn of 2010. The energy recovery linac ALICE serves as an injector for the EMMA ring, within an effective energy range of 10 to 20 MeV. The ring is composed of 42 cells, each containing one focusing and one defocusing quadrupole. Acceleration over many turns of the EMMA machine has recently been confirmed. In some cases the bunch will traverse upwards of 100 turns, at which point the effects of space-charge may be significant. It is therefore necessary to model the electron beam transport in the ring using a code capable of both calculating the effect of and compensating for space-charge. Therefore the General Particle Tracer (GPT) code has been used. A range of injection beam parameters have been modelled for comparison with experimental results and those of other codes. The simulated effects of space-charge on the tune shift of the machine are also compared with those expected from theory.

 


 



TUPWO057
Active Shimming of Dynamic Multipoles of an APPLE II Undulator in the Diamond Storage Ring
1997


 

B. Singh, R. Bartolini, R.T. Fielder, E.C. Longhi, I.P.S. Martin, S.P. Mhaskar, R.P. Walker
                       Diamond, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom
R. Bartolini
                       JAI, Oxford, United Kingdom

 


 

Diamond plans to operate a 5 m, long period length, APPLE undulator in a long insertion straight section. Theoretical investigations showed a severe impact on machine dynamics especially when the device is operated in vertical polarization mode. The use of local optics corrections and/or lowering of beta functions were initially investigated as possible solutions but with limited success. Active shimming of dynamic multipoles, following the approach at BESSY-II, proved more effective. The optimum shiming has been devised using kick map approach. In this paper we review the theoretical analysis, the commissioning of the active shims and the undulator, and the net effect of the undulator after compensation.

 


 



TUPWO059
Reducing Emittance of a H− Beam in a Solenoid-based Low-energy Beam Transport through Numerical Modeling
2000


 

J. von Stecher, D.L. Bruhwiler, B.T. Schwartz, S.A. Veitzer
                       Tech-X, Boulder, Colorado, USA
B. Han, M.P. Stockli
                       ORNL, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA

 


 

Funding: This work is supported by the US DOE Office of Science, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, including grant No. DE-SC0000844
A solenoid-based low-energy beam transport (LEBT) subsystem is under development for the H− linac front end of the Spallation Neutron Source. The LEBT design includes MHz frequency chopping of the partially neutralized H− beam that can potentially lead to beam instabilities. We report results of numerical modeling using the parallel Vorpal framework for 3D electrostatic particle-in-cell (PIC) to simulate H− beam dynamics in the LEBT, over multiple chopping events. We detail how the addition of a positively biased potential barrier near the entrance of the chopper can improve LEBT performance by eliminating chopper-induced emittance increases over many chopping events.
DLB is now at University of Colorado, Boulder

 


 



TUPWO060
Flat Electron Bunch Compression at the Advanced Superconducting Test Accelerator
2003


 

C.R. Prokop, D. Mihalcea, P. Piot
                       Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, Illinois, USA
B.E. Carlsten
                       LANL, Los Alamos, New Mexico, USA
P. Piot, Y.-E. Sun
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: This work is supported by LANL LDRD #20110067DR and by the U.S. DOE contracts DE-FG02-08ER41532 and DE-AC02-07CH11359.
The generation of flat beam using round-to-flat beam conversion of an incoming canonical-angular-momentum dominated electron beam could have important application in the field of advanced acceleration techniques and accelerator-based light source. In this paper we explore the temporal compression of flat beams and especially compare the resulting phase space dilutions with the case of round beam. Finally, we propose and detail a possible experiment to investigate the flat-beam bunch compression at the Advanced Superconducting Test Accelerator currently in construction at Fermilab.

 


 



TUPWO061
Design of a Soft Orbit Bump for FEL Mirror Protection at Duke FEL/HIGS Facility
2006


 

H. Hao, J.Y. Li, S.F. Mikhailov, Y.K. Wu
                       FEL/Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, USA

 


 

Funding: This work is supported in part by the US DOE grant no. DE-FG02-97ER41033.
In an oscillator Free-Electron Laser (FEL) with a high energy electron beam, it is critical to minimize harmful high-energy radiation on the downstream FEL mirror in order to increase its lifetime. At the High Intensity Gamma-ray Source (HIGS) facility at Duke University, effort has been devoted to developing a variety of techniques to reduce the amount of radiation on the FEL mirror. One of the most effective methods was the use of a set of adjustable in-vacuum apertures to block harmonic radiation from FEL wigglers. In recent studies, it was determined that the edge radiation from the end-of-the-arc bending magnet is the main source of UV/VUV and x-ray radiation which causes mirror damage. To mitigate this effect, a soft orbit bump is designed to change the displacement and angle of the electron beam around the end-of-the-arc area. This soft orbit bump is developed using the multi-objective optimization technique. Calculation shows the soft orbit bump can significantly reduce the flux of high energy photons on the FEL mirror. Study is also performed to determine the impact of this orbit bump on the injection, beam lifetime, and the FEL and gamma-ray operation at HIGS facility.

 


 



TUPWO063
Reducing HLS-II Emittance by Radiation Damping Partition Factor Exchange
2009


 

J.Y. Li
                       FEL/Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, USA
W. Li, G. Liu, W. Xu
                       USTC/NSRL, Hefei, Anhui, People's Republic of China
Y. Li
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

Funding: The Introduction of Outstanding Technological Talents Program of Chinese Academy of Sciences, 2010.
In this paper, we present a preliminary study on using a Robinson wiggler, a wiggler with transverse gradient, to reduce the horizontal beam emittance of the Hefei Light Source II (HLS-II) storage ring. A proof-of-principle study demonstrates that it is possible to further reduce the horizontal beam emittance by 50\% using a 2-meter long Robinson wiggler installed on a dispersive straight section. This encouraging result suggests a feasible option to significantly improve the HLS-II performance at a relative low cost and without significant modification to its global configuration in the near future.

 


 



TUPWO064
Online Optimization Algorithms for Accelerators and Experimental Results
2012


 

X. Huang, W.J. Corbett, J.A. Safranek, J. Wu
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Online optimization of accelerators is becoming increasingly more important as accelerator systems become more and more complex. Online accelerator optimization is generally a multi-variant nonlinear problem with considerable noise. Efficiency and robustness are critical for online applications. Therefore optimization algorithms require special considerations. In this study we evaluate the viability of several online optimization algorithms for both ring and linac machines. Numerical simulations and experimental tests are presented to investigate performance of the algorithms.

 


 



TUPWO065
Anomalously Long Bunches from the SLAC North Damping Ring
2015


 

G. Yocky, F.-J. Decker, N. Lipkowitz, U. Wienands, M. Woodley
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

The SLC damping ring provides emittance reduced beam to the beginning of the FACET accelerator. In measurements conducted during the 2012 FACET run, we find the bunch-length to be ~20% longer than canonical. A study is performed with longitudinal simulation code to determine the impact on the various stages of compression for FACET experimental running.

 


 



TUPWO067
Start-to-end Particle Tracking of the FACET Accelerator
2018


 

N. Lipkowitz, F.-J. Decker, G.R. White, M. Woodley, G. Yocky
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Department of Energy contract DE-AC02-76SF00515.
The Facility for Advanced aCcelerator Experimental Tests (FACET) consists of the first two-thirds of the SLAC two-mile linac followed by a final focus and experimental end station. To date, wakefield-dominated emittance growth and dispersion in the linac, as well as dispersive and chromatic effects in the final focus have precluded regular reliable operation that meets the design parameters for final spot size. In this work, a 6-D particle tracking code (Lucretia) is used to simulate the complete machine, with input parameters taken directly from saved machine configurations. Sensitivities of various tuning parameters to the final spot sizes are compared with measurements taken from the real machine, and a set of tuning protocols is determined to improve regular machine operation.

 


 



TUPWO068
Performance Improvements of the SLAC Linac for the FACET Beam
2021


 

F.-J. Decker, N. Lipkowitz, E. Marín, Y. Nosochkov, J. Sheppard, M.K. Sullivan, Y. Sun, M.-H. Wang, G.R. White, U. Wienands, M. Woodley, G. Yocky
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by U.S.Department of Energy, Contract DE-AC02-76SF00515.
Two thirds of the SLAC Linac is used to generate a short, intense electron beam for the FACET experiments. The emittance growth along the Linac is a major concern to finally get small spot sizes for these experiments. There are two different approaches to get the required small emittances: a) lengthy iterative global tuning technique, and b) trying to identify locations of the main sources of the emittance growth and reducing their effect locally. How these approaches help to get good beam performances is discussed.

 


 



TUPWO069
Optimization of FACET Optics
2024


 

M.-H. Wang, F.-J. Decker, N. Lipkowitz, Y. Nosochkov, G.R. White, U. Wienands, M. Woodley, G. Yocky
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Funding: supported by the US Department of Energy contract DE-AC02-76SF00515.
The FACET accelerator facility is designed to provide short and intense e- or e+ bunches with small spot size for plasma wakefield accelerator research and other experiments. It is based on the SLAC linac with a compressor chicane in sector-10, and a second compressor chicane and final focus in sector-20 (S20). Originally, the S20 chicane was designed to be compatible with an upgrade to include a second S20 chicane for simultaneous transport of e- and e+ bunches. This placed additional optics constraints which lead to strong focusing in the S20 chicane. The latter increases the effects of errors causing emittance growth. Lately, it has been decided not to proceed with the upgrade option. Therefore, there is a potential for improving the optics by relaxing the constraints. In this study, we explore alternative optics designs where beta functions in the S20 chicane and final focus are reduced in order to minimize the error effects. The optics and non-linear aberrations are evaluated, and the chromatic correction is optimized for each design. Beam tracking simulations are performed using Elegant and Lucretia. The most optimal designs are identified based on these simulations.

 


 



TUPWO073
Precision Tune, Phase and Beta Function Measurement by Frequency Analysis in RHIC
2027


 

C. Liu, R.L. Hulsart, A. Marusic, R.J. Michnoff, M.G. Minty, P. Thieberger
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Brookhaven Science Associates, LLC under Contract No. DE-AC02-98CH10886 with the U.S. Department of Energy.
The high quality of the RHIC turn-by-turn (TbT) data obtained from the beam position monitor (BPM) system was fully exploited by using two analysis approaches. One is a time domain least square fitting technique and the other one is a frequency domain interpolated Fourier Transform technique. Both methods were applied to 1024-turn data from kicked beam and from continuous coherent excitation experiments. The betatron phase precisions obtained with both methods were ~0.1 degree for the continuous excitation and ~0.2 degree for the impulse excitation. The algorithms of these two analyses and comparison of their results will be presented in this report.

 


 



TUPWO074
Reducing Spin Tune Spread by Matching DX Prime at Snakes in RHIC
2030


 

C. Liu, M. Bai, E.D. Courant, A. Marusic, M.G. Minty, V.H. Ranjbar, S. Tepikian, R.A. Thomas, D. Trbojevic
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Brookhaven Science Associates, LLC under Contract No. DE-AC02-98CH10886 with the U.S. Department of Energy.
At the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider (RHIC) at BNL the physics program includes collisions between beams of polarized protons at high beam energies. Maintaining the proton's polarization is vital and preserved primarily by application of a pair of Siberian snakes. Measurements from recent high-energy physics runs indicate polarization loss during acceleration between 100 and 250 GeV. Based on analytic estimations for off-momentum particles and/or beams, a nonzero difference in DX prime - the dispersion function angle - between the snakes can result in a shift in the spin tune, or equivalently, of the conditions of snake resonances in close proximity to the beam during acceleration. Requiring that DX prime at the two Siberian snakes in RHIC being equal would reduce the spin tune shift for off-energy particles so helping to maintain polarization during the energy ramp. Preservation of half-integer spin tune is also important for future operation of the spin flipper at store. In this report, the matching scheme and simulations using MAD-X will be presented together with a newly applied method based on response matrices.

 


 




