













IPAC2019 - Table of Session: TUYPLS (Invited Orals: Applications of Accelerators)


TUYPLS —  Invited Orals: Applications of Accelerators   (21-May-19   11:00—12:00)
Chair: M. Vretenar, CERN, Meyrin, Switzerland


Paper
Title
Page



TUYPLS1
The Brave New World of Accelerators Applications
 


 

A. Faus-Golfe
                       LAL, Orsay, France

 


 

During the past century particle accelerators and their technology have played an essential role to improve standards of living and well-being. Originally developed to investigate the fundamental laws of nature, today, accelerators in different configurations are producing beams of subatomic particles and charged atoms that help to manage our health and our environment; they also provide a significant tool for manufacturing industry, for sustaining greener, safer energy, and for securing our borders and ensuring national security. They offer advance investigation methods considered essential in many fields of basic and applied science. Innovative technical developments are in progress or in the horizon, and will extend the practical use of accelerators even further for the social and economic benefit of all. The quest for more compact, more efficient, lower cost, portable, combined with imaging,… is ongoing and not absent of challenges. In this talk the recent developments of particle accelerators focused in societal applications will be described as well as the issues, challenges and opportunities the R&D in this brave new field is facing.

 






Slides TUYPLS1 [22.430 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



TUYPLS2
Development of Accelerator Driven Advanced Nuclear Energy and Nuclear Fuel Recycling
4389


 

Y. He, L. Gu, Y. He, Z. Qin, Z.G. Wang, Z.J. Wang, L. Yang, J.H. Zhang, X. Zhang, H.S. Xu
                       IMP/CAS, Lanzhou, People’s Republic of China
W.-L. Zhan
                       CAS, Beijing, People’s Republic of China

 


 

The proposed Accelerator Driven Advanced Nuclear Energy System (ADANES) is a new closed nuclear energy cycle system, aimed at improving the utilization rate of nuclear fuels, enhancing nuclear safety, reducing the nuclear proliferation, and at becoming a sustainable and low-carbon energy supply for thousands of years. The ADANES system consists of fuel burner similar to the Accelerator Driven System (ADS), used nuclear fuel processing and recycle system. Recently, several prototypes and developments for key technologies have been made, such as 25 MeV proton superconducting linac, granular flow spallation target, a new-design reactor, key process of used nuclear fuel, and others. This talk will present ADANES development and status of key technology R&D.

 






Slides TUYPLS2 [15.580 MB]
        
 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ https://doi.org/10.18429/JACoW-IPAC2019-TUYPLS2

 


About •
paper received ※ 20 May 2019       paper accepted ※ 16 June 2019        issue date ※ 21 June 2019
 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




