













IPAC2016 - Table of Session: THYA (Invited Oral Presentation, Beam Dynamics and Electromagnetic Fields)


THYA —  Invited Oral Presentation, Beam Dynamics and Electromagnetic Fields   (12-May-16   11:00—11:30)
Chair: M.-E. Couprie, CEA/DSM, Gif-sur-Yvette, France


Paper
Title
Page



THYA01
Advanced Concepts and Methods for Very High Intensity Linacs
3155


 

P.A.P. Nghiem, N. Chauvin, D. Uriot
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France
M. Comunian
                       INFN/LNL, Legnaro (PD), Italy
C. Oliver
                       CIEMAT, Madrid, Spain
W. Simeoni
                       IF-UFRGS, Porto Alegre, Brazil
M. Valette
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

For very high intensity linacs, both beam power and space charge should be taken into consideration for any analysis of accelerators aiming at comparing their performances and pointing out the challenging sections. As high beam power is an issue from the lowest energy, careful and exhaustive beam loss predictions have to be done. High space charge implies lattice compactness making the implementation of beam diagnostics very problematic, so a clear strategy for beam diagnostic has to be defined. Beam halo becomes no longer negligible, and it plays a significant role in the particle loss process. Therefore, beam optimization must take the halo into account and beam characterization must be able to describe the halo part in addition to the core one. This presentation discusses advanced concepts and methods for beam analysis, beam loss prediction, beam optimization, beam diagnostic and beam characterization especially dedicated to very high intensity accelerators.

 






Slides THYA01 [6.177 MB]
        
 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ DOI:10.18429/JACoW-IPAC2016-THYA01

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




