













LINAC2014 - Table of Session: THIOA (Invited Orals Proton/Ion accelerators)


THIOA —  Invited Orals Proton/Ion accelerators   (04-Sep-14   08:30—10:30)
Chair: P. Bertrand, GANIL, Caen, France


Paper
Title
Page



THIOA01
Cost Optimized Design of High Power Linacs
785


 

M. Eshraqi
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden

 


 

The research accelerators are growing in energy and power which translates to an increase in their cost, and also size if the conventional acceleration techniques are used. On the other hand, handling megawatts of power requires a design that is robust, respects the known criteria in beam physics to avoid losses in the order of less than one part in million. Traditionally cost increases with power and quality of the accelerator and beam. In this paper, using the ESS linac as an example, this tradition is challenged and ways to reduce the cost while neither quality nor power is compromised are presented.

 






Slides THIOA01 [8.363 MB]
        
 


 



THIOA02
Superconducting RF Development for FRIB at MSU
790


 

K. Saito, N.K. Bultman, E.E. Burkhardt, F. Casagrande, S.K. Chandrasekaran, S. Chouhan, C. Compton, J.L. Crisp, K. Elliott, A. Facco, A.D. Fox, P.E. Gibson, M.J. Johnson, G. Kiupel, R.E. Laxdal, M. Leitner, S.M. Lidia, I.M. Malloch, D. Miller, S.J. Miller, D. Morris, D. Norton, R. Oweiss, J.P. Ozelis, J. Popielarski, L. Popielarski, A.P. Rauch, R.J. Rose, T. Russo, S. Shanab, M. Shuptar, S. Stark, N.R. Usher, G.J. Velianoff, D.R. Victory, J. Wei, G. Wu, X. Wu, T. Xu, T. Xu, Y. Yamazaki, Q. Zhao, Z. Zheng
                       FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA

 


 

Funding: *This material is based upon work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science under Cooperative Agreement DE-SC0000661.
FRIB is a $730M heavy ion accelerator project and a very large scale machine for many nuclear physics users. The civil construction started on March 17th 2014. The SRF system design and development have completed. The machine is to be in early completion end of 2019. FRIB accelerates ion species up to 238U with energies of no less than 200MeV/u and provides a beam power up to 400kW. Four SRF cavity families are used from β=0.041, 0.085 (QWRs) to 0.29 and 0.53 (HWRs). 8T superconducting solenoids are installed in the cryomodules for space effective strong beam focusing. The biggest challenges are in accelerating the high-power heavy ion beams from the very low energy to medium energy and the stable operation for large user community. The SRF cryomodule design addressed three critical issues: high performance, stable operation and easy maintainability, which chose several unique technical strategies, e.g.2K operation, bottom up cryomodule assembly, local magnetic shielding and so on. This talk will include high performance cavity R&D, local magnetic shielding, flux trapping by solenoid fringe field, and bottom up cryomodule assembly.

 






Slides THIOA02 [5.049 MB]
        
 


 



THIOA03
Status of the HIE-ISOLDE Linac
795


 

W. Venturini Delsolaro, L. Alberty, L. Arnaudon, K. Artoos, J. Bauche, A.P. Bernardes, J.A. Bousquet, E. Bravin, S. Calatroni, E.D. Cantero, O. Capatina, N. Delruelle, D. Duarte Ramos, M. Elias, F. Formenti, M.A. Fraser, J. Gayde, S. Giron, N.M. Jecklin, Y. Kadi, G. Kautzmann, Y. Leclercq, P. Maesen, V. Mertens, E. Montesinos, V. Parma, G.J. Rosaz, K.M. Schirm, E. Siesling, D. Smekens, A. Sublet, M. Therasse, D. Valuch, G. Vandoni, E. Vergara Fernandez, D. Voulot, L.R. Williams, P. Zhang
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The HIE-ISOLDE project aims at increasing the energy of the radioactive beams (RIB) of REX-ISOLDE from the present 3 MeV/u up to 10 MeV/u for A/q up to 4.5. This will be accomplished by means of a new superconducting linac, based on independently phased quarter wave resonators using the Nb sputtering on copper technology, and working at 101.28 MHz. The focusing elements are superconducting solenoids providing 13.5 T2m field integral. These active elements are contained in a common vacuum cryostat. The presentation will cover the status of advancement of the HIE-ISOLDE linac technical systems. The performance of the superconducting elements will be presented, together with the assembly work of the cryomodule in clean room and the planned qualification tests in the horizontal test facility at CERN

 






Slides THIOA03 [24.692 MB]
        
 


 



THIOA04
Superconducting Cavities and Cryomodules for Proton and Deuteron Linacs
801


 

G. Devanz
                       CEA/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France

 


 

We review the recent advances in the design plans and test results of the superconducting structures for proton (ESS) and deuteron linacs (SPIRAL2, IFMIF). A variety of RF resonators are used for this purposes, from multicell elliptical cavities for the acceleration of pulsed proton beams to half and quarter wave resonators for CW deuteron beams. The increase in beam power with respect to previous generations of linacs brings new challenges to cavities and RF couplers. Test results of the available SRF prototypes and cryomodules of the aforementioned projects will be presented.

 






Slides THIOA04 [6.785 MB]
        
 


 



THIOA05
An 800 MeV Superconducting Linac to Support Megawatt Proton Operations at Fermilab
807


 

V.A. Lebedev, P. Derwent, S.D. Holmes
                       Fermilab, Batavia, Illinois, USA

 


 

Funding: Operated by Fermi Research Alliance, LLC under Contract No. DE-AC02-07CH11359 with the United States Department of Energy
Active discussion on the high energy physics priorities in the US carried out since summer of 2013 resulted in changes in Fermilab plans for future development of the existing accelerator complex. In particular, the scope of Project X was reduced to the support of the Long Base Neutrino Facility (LBNF) at the project first stage. The name of the facility was changed to the PIP-II (Proton Improvement Plan). This new facility is a logical extension of the existing Proton Improvement Plan aimed at doubling average power of the Fermilab’s Booster and Main Injector (MI). Its design and required R&D are closely related to the Project X. The paper discusses the goals of this new facility and changes to the Project X linac introduced to support the goals.

 






Slides THIOA05 [1.597 MB]
        
 


 




