













LINAC2014 - Table of Session: THIOC (Invited Orals Technology)


THIOC —  Invited Orals Technology   (04-Sep-14   14:00—15:00)
Chair: A.G. Tribendis, BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia


Paper
Title
Page



THIOC01
SPIRAL2 Bunch Extension Monitor
824


 

R.V. Revenko, J.L. Vignet
                       GANIL, Caen, France

 


 

Funding: The work is funded in frame of CRISP WP3T1
Superconducting linacs require beam diagnostics to quantify the time extension of the bunch for a proper beam adaptation. Bunch extension monitor (BEM) should provide measurements with required resolution and minimal disturbance of beam properties, have a broad dynamic range of beam intensity and should be easy to use for accelerator routine operation. The design of BEM should take into account operation at the vicinity of cryomodules and satisfy imposed requirements for this. BEM measures the x-rays resulting of the bunch interaction with a tungsten wire. Developed prototype of detector was successfully tested with ions beams. Test for detector background conditions at vicinity of cryomodule was carried out and results are presented.

 






Slides THIOC01 [7.054 MB]
        
 


 



THIOC02
Allison Scanner Emittance Diagnostic Development at TRIUMF
829


 

A. Laxdal, F. Ames, R.A. Baartman, W.R. Rawnsley, A. Sen, V.A. Verzilov, G. Waters
                       TRIUMF, Canada's National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics, Vancouver, Canada
R.V. Hariwal
                       IUAC, New Delhi, India
M. Kownacki
                       SFU, Burnaby, BC, Canada
R.F. Paris
                       University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada

 


 

TRIUMF has developed Allison scanners to measure the transverse emittance of both low intensity hadron beams at 104 pps and high intensity electron beams at 10mA for a dynamic range of more than 1012 in intensity. The devices give high resolution transverse emittance information in a compact package that fits in a single diagnostic box. The talk will present the design and performance of the operating devices.

 






Slides THIOC02 [2.349 MB]
        
 


 



THIOC03
Operational Experience With CW High Gradient and High QL Cryomodules
834


 

C. Hovater, T.L. Allison, R. Bachimanchi, E. Daly, M.A. Drury, G.E. Lahti, C.I. Mounts, R.M. Nelson, T. E. Plawski
                       JLab, Newport News, Virginia, USA

 


 

Funding: This manuscript has been authored by Jefferson Science Associates, LLC under U.S. DOE Contract No. DE-AC05-06OR23177.
The Continuous Electron Beam Accelerator Facility (CEBAF) energy upgrade from 6 GeV to 12 GeV includes the installation of ten new 100 MV cryomodules (80 cavities). The superconducting RF cavities are designed to operate CW at an accelerating gradient of 19.3 MV/m with a QL of 3×107. The RF system employs single cavity control using new digital LLRF controls and 13 kW klystrons. Recently, all of the new cryomodules and associated RF hardware and software have been commissioned and operated in the CEBAF accelerator. Electrons at linac currents up to 10 μA have been successfully accelerated and used for nuclear physics experiments. This paper reports on the commissioning and operation of the cryomodules and RF system.

 






Slides THIOC03 [5.793 MB]
        
 


 




