













LINAC2014 - Table of Session: THPOL (Poster Oral Presentations)


THPOL —  Poster Oral Presentations   (04-Sep-14   15:00—16:00)
Chair: H. Weise, DESY, Hamburg, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



THPOL01
Study of Femtosecond Electron Bunch Generation at t-ACTS, Tohoku University
 


THPP136
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

S. Kashiwagi, H. Hama, F. Hinode, A. Lueangaramwong, T. Muto, I. Nagasawa, S. Nagasawa, K. Nanbu, Y. Shibasaki, K. Takahashi, C. Tokoku
                       Tohoku University, Research Center for Electron Photon Science, Sendai, Japan
N.Y. Huang
                       NSRRC, Hsinchu, Taiwan

 


 

We are conducting a beam experiment of sub-picosecond electron bunch generation at a test accelerator as a coherent terahertz source (t-ACTS), Tohoku University. In the t-ACTS, the intense coherent terahertz radiation will be generated from an undulator and an isochronous accumulator ring based on the sub-picoseconds bunches. The accelerator is composed of a thermionic cathode rf gun, alpha magnet and 3 m-long accelerating structure. A velocity bunching scheme in accelerating structure is applied to generate the short electron bunch. The thermionic rf gun consists two independent cavities has been developed, which is capable of manipulating the beam longitudinal phase space. To produced femtosecond electron bunch, the longitudinal phase space distribution of the beam entering the accelerating structure is optimized by changing the rf gun parameters. The bunch length is measured by observing an optical tradition radiation with a streak camera. In the study of femtosecond electron bunch generation, a relation between the rf gun parameters and the bunch length after compression was investigated. The preliminary results of experiments will be described in this conference.

 


 



THPOL02
Commissioning and Operational Experience Gained with the Linac4 RFQ at CERN
 


THPP037
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

C. Rossi, L. Arnaudon, P. Baudrenghien, G. Bellodi, O. Brunner, J. Hansen, J.-B. Lallement, A.M. Lombardi, J. Noirjean
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
M. Desmons, A. France, O. Piquet
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France

 


 

The installation of Linac4 has started in 2013 with the 3 MeV Front End, aiming at delivering a fully commissioned 160 MeV H− beam by 2016. During summer 2013 the H− ion source, a clone of the first prototype, and the Low Energy Beam Transport lines have been installed in the Linac4 tunnel followed shortly by the Radiofrequency Quadrupole accelerator (RFQ), operating at the RF frequency of 352.2 MHz and which accelerates the ion beam to the energy of 3 MeV. The RFQ, which had already been commissioned at the 3 MeV Test Stand, was this time driven by a fully digital LLRF system. This paper reports the result of the bead-pull field check performed after the installation in the tunnel, the experience gained during recommissioning and the results of field characterization as a function of the water temperature in the RFQ cooling channels, showing how the accelerating field can be adjusted by simply tuning the different cavity modules.

 


 



THPOL03
RF Design of a Novel S-Band Backward Traveling Wave Linac for Proton Therapy
 


THPP061
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

S. Benedetti, U. Amaldi
                       TERA, Novara, Italy
A. Degiovanni, A. Grudiev, W. Wuensch
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Proton therapy is a rapidly developing technique for tumour treatment, thanks to the physical and dosimetric advantages of charged particles in the dose distribution. Here the RF design of a novel high gradient accelerating structure for proton Linacs is discussed. The choice of a linear accelerator lies mainly in its advantage over cyclotron and synchrotron in terms of fast energy modulation of the beam, which allows the implementation of active spot scanning technique without need of passive absorbers. The design discussed hereafter represents a unicum thanks to the accelerating mode chosen, a 2.9985 GHz backward traveling wave mode with 150° phase advance, and to the RF design approach. The prototype has been designed to reach an accelerating gradient of 50 MV/m, which is more than twice that obtained before. This would allow a shorter Linac potentially reducing cost. The complete 3D RF design of the full structure for beta equal to 0.38 is presented. A prototype will be soon produced and tested at high power. This structure is part of the TULIP project, a proton therapy single-room facility based on high gradient linear accelerators.

 






Slides THPOL03 [1.537 MB]
        
 


 



THPOL04
The Heavy Ion Injector at the NICA Project
 


THPP094
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

A.V. Butenko, D.E. Donets, E.E. Donets, A.D. Kovalenko, A.O. Sidorin, A. Tuzikov
                       JINR/VBLHEP, Moscow, Russia
V. Aleksandrov, E.D. Donets, A. Govorov, V. Kobets, K.A. Levterov, I.N. Meshkov, V.A. Mikhaylov, V. Monchinsky, G.V. Trubnikov
                       JINR, Dubna, Moscow Region, Russia
H. Hoeltermann, H. Podlech, U. Ratzinger, A. Schempp
                       BEVATECH, Frankfurt, Germany
T. Kulevoy, D.A. Liakin
                       ITEP, Moscow, Russia

 


 

The general goals of the Nuclotron-based Ion Collider fAcility (NICA) project at JINR (Dubna) are providing of colliding beams for experimental studies of both hot and dense strongly interacting baryonic matter and spin physics. The experiments will be performed in collider mode and at fixed target. The first part of the project program requires the collisions of heavy nuclei up to 197Au79+ to be studied. The new heavy ion linac – HILac (Heavy Ion Linear Accelerator) will accelerate ions with q/A – values above 0.16 to 3.2 MeV/u is under manufacturing presently. The main features of HILac are described.

 


 



THPOL05
Efficiency of High Order Modes Extraction in the European XFEL Linac
 


THPP022
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

A.A. Sulimov, J. Iversen, D. Kostin, W.-D. Möller, D. Reschke, J.K. Sekutowicz, J.H. Thie
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany
D. Karolczyk, K. Kasprzak, S. Myalski, M. Wiencek, A. Zwozniak
                       IFJ-PAN, Kraków, Poland

 


 

The serial production of components for the European XFEL linac was started in 2011 and reached the planned level of 8 cavities (1 module) per week in 2013. The measurements of High Order Modes (HOM) characteristics under cryogenic conditions (2K) are being done at the Accelerating Module Test Facility (AMTF) by the IFJ-PAN Team in collaboration with DESY groups. More than 50 % of the cavities have been already produced and 30 % of the whole amount were measured during either cavity vertical tests or module tests. We present first statistics of these measurements and analyze the efficiency of HOM extraction.

 


 



THPOL06
CERN Linac4 Drift Tube Linac Manufacturing and Assembly
 


THPP036
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

S. Ramberger, P. Bourquin, A. Cherif, Y. Cuvet, A. Dallocchio, G. Favre, J.-F. Fuchs, J.-M. Geisser, F. Gerigk, J.-M. Giguet, J. Hansen, M. Polini, S. Sgobba, N. Thaus, M. Vretenar
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

The manufacturing of the Linac4 Drift Tube Linac (DTL) components has been completed and the assembly of the structures is in its final stages. 3 tanks of 3.9m, 7.3m, and 7.3m, designed to accelerate a 40mA average pulse current H–beam from 3 to 50MeV, are being assembled from 2, 4 and 4 segments of about 2.0m length, containing each from 22 drift tubes at the low energy end, down to only 6 at the high energy end. Due to its peculiar design avoiding adjustment mechanisms on the drift tube, tight tolerances have to be maintained in the production. This paper discusses the assembly stages that are used to achieve the tolerances over the full length of the structures. Metrology results on the assembled DTL Tank1 confirm the required precision.

 


 



THPOL07
High Power Conditioning of Annular-Ring Coupled Structures for the J-PARC Linac
 


THPP089
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

H. Ao, T. Ito, Y. Nemoto, H. Oguri, N. Ouchi, J. Tamura
                       JAEA/J-PARC, Tokai-mura, Japan
H. Asano
                       Nippon Advanced Technology Co. Ltd., Ibaraki-prefecture, Japan
Z. Fang, K. Futatsukawa, K. Nanmo, T. Sugimura
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

The linac of Japan Proton Accelerator Research Complex (J-PARC), which is an injector to a 3-GeV synchrotron, comprised a 3-MeV RFQ, 50-MeV DTLs and 181-MeV Separated-type DTLs. From September 2013, 25 annular-ring coupled structure (ACS) cavities were additionally installed to increase the linac beam energy up to 400 MeV and achieve 1-MW beam power of the 3-GeV synchrotron. After installation work the high power conditioning was started from December 2013 and most of the ACS cavities were conditioned within three weeks. We passed through some troubles and finally finished conditioning all the cavities until the middle of January 2014. In this paper, we present the conditioning results and how to handle the issue in the conditioning process.

 






Slides THPOL07 [7.756 MB]
        
 


 



THPOL08
Development of Superconducting Cavities and Related Infrastructure for High Intensity Proton Linac for Spallation Neutron Source
 


THPP122
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

S.C. Joshi, J. Dwivedi, P.D. Gupta, P.R. Hannurkar, V. Jain, P. Khare, P.K. Kush, G. Mundra, A. Puntambekar, S. Raghvendra, S.B. Roy, P. Shrivastava
                       RRCAT, Indore (M.P.), India

 


 

Raja Ramanna Centre for Advanced Technology has taken up a program on R&D activities of a 1 GeV, high intensity superconducting proton linac for a spallation neutron source. The proton linac will require a large number of superconducting Radio Frequency cavities ranging from low beta spoke resonators to medium and high beta multi-cell elliptical cavities at different RF frequencies. A dedicated facility is being set up for development of multi-cell superconducting cavities and their performance characterization. 1.3 GHz single-cell niobium cavities have been developed to establish the fabrication procedure. These cavities has exhibited high quality factor with an accelerating gradients up to 37 MV/m. A novel technique of laser welding of 1.3 GHz niobium cavity has been developed and demonstrated performance comparable to electron beam welded cavity. A dedicated facility for SCRF cavity forming, machining, electron beam welding, RF characterization, cavity tuning and cavity processing is being set up. To characterize a SCRF cavity at 2K, a vertical test stand has been developed and a horizontal test stand has been designed.

 


 



THPOL09
Catalogue of Losses for the Linear IFMIF Prototype Accelerator
 


THPP014
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

N. Chauvin, P.A.P. Nghiem, D. Uriot
                       CEA/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
M. Comunian
                       INFN/LNL, Legnaro (PD), Italy
C. Oliver
                       CIEMAT, Madrid, Spain

 


 

One of the activities of the EVEDA (Engineering Validation and Engineering Design Activities) phase of the IFMIF (International Fusion Materials Irradiation Facility) project consists in building, testing and operating, in Japan, a 125 mA/9 MeV deuteron accelerator, called LIPAc, which has been developed in Europe. For the accelerator safety aspects, a precise knowledge of beam loss location and power deposition is crucial, especially for a high intensity, high power accelerator like LIPAc. This paper presents the beam dynamics simulations allowing to estimate beam losses in different situations of the accelerator lifetime: starting from scratch, beam commissioning, tuning or exploration, routine operation, sudden failure. Some results of these studies are given and commented. Recommendations for hot point protection, beam stop velocity, beam power limitation are given accordingly.

 






Slides THPOL09 [4.780 MB]
        
 


 



THPOL10
Linac4 Transverse and Longitudinal Emittance Reconstruction in the Presence of Space Charge
 


THPP033
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

J.-B. Lallement, G. Bellodi, V.A. Dimov, A.M. Lombardi, M. Yarmohammadi Satri
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
M. Yarmohammadi Satri
                       IPM, Tehran, Iran

 


 

Linac4 is a pulsed, normal-conducting 160 Mev H− linear accelerator presently under construction at CERN. It will replace the present 50 MeV Linac2 as injector of the proton accelerator complex as part of a project to increase the LHC luminosity. The 3 MeV front end, composed of a 45 keV ion source, a Low Energy Beam transport (LEBT), a 352 MHz Radio Frequency Quadrupole (RFQ) at 3 MeV and Medium Energy Beam Transport (MEBT) housing a beam chopper, and the first Drift Tube Linac (DTL) tank at 12 MeV have been commissioned during the first half of 2014. The transverse and longitudinal emittance reconstruction technique in the presence of space charge, that will be used for the next commissioning stages and permanently during the Linac operation, was successfully tested and validated. The reconstruction method and the results obtained at 3 and 12 MeV are presented in this paper.

 


 



THPOL11
Benchmark of the Beam Dynamics Code DYNAC Using the ESS Proton Linac
 


THPP043
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

E. Tanke, R. De Prisco, M. Eshraqi, R. Miyamoto, A. Ponton, E. Sargsyan
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden
S. Valero
                       CEA, Gif-sur-Yvette, France

 


 

The beam dynamics code DYNAC is benchmarked using the ESS Proton Linac. Recent work on improvements in the code, including of the RFQ model, is discussed. The three space charge routines contained in DYNAC, including a 3D version, have remained unchanged. The code contains a numerical method, capable of simulating a multi-charge state ion beam in accelerating elements. In addition, protons, single charge state heavy ions and non-relativistic electrons in accelerating elements can be modeled using an analytical method. The benchmark will include comparisons of both methods with the beam dynamics models in use at ESS: TraceWin and Toutatis. As this analytical method used in DYNAC is fast, it is a prime candidate for use as an online beam simulation tool.

 


 



THPOL12
A Review of Emittance Exchanger Beamlines: Past Experiments and Future Proposals
 


THPP058
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

J.C.T. Thangaraj
                       Fermilab, Batavia, Illinois, USA

 


 

Emittance exchangers (EEX) are advanced phase space manipulation schemes where the transverse phase space of the electron beam is exchanged with the longitudinal phase space. The first experimentally demonstrated concept of the emittance exchanger at the A0 photoinjector at Fermilab used a transverse deflecting cavity (TDC) sandwiched between two doglegs. In this talk, I will briefly review the history of the emittance exchange beamline experiments from a low charge beam without RF chirp to a high charge beam with RF chirp including collective effects such as coherent synchrotron radiation. I will also describe how shaping application have been spawned based on EEX. I will then review future schemes that has been proposed and propose two additional schemes of EEX that can be implemented in existing modern linacs. As an example, we present an improved emittance exchanger scheme that uses a TDC sandwiched between two chicanes. The significant advantage of this scheme is that it allows the use of the expensive transverse deflecting cavity for diagnostics and still allows the flexibility to use the existing beamline either as a bunch compressor or an emittance exchanger.

 


 




