













LINAC2014 - Table of Session: FRIOA (Invited Orals Beam dynamics)


FRIOA —  Invited Orals Beam dynamics   (05-Sep-14   08:30—10:30)
Chair: L. Groening, GSI, Darmstadt, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



FRIOA01
Demonstration of a cascaded IFEL
 


 

E. Hemsing
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

I will present on an experimental demonstration of a two-stage cascaded optical inverse free-electron laser (IFEL) accelerator in which an electron beam was accelerated by a strong laser pulse after being packed into optical microbunches by a weaker initial laser pulse. It was shown experimentally that injection of precisely prepared optical microbunches into an IFEL allows net acceleration or deceleration of the beam, depending on the relative phase of the two laser pulses. Results indicate that with proper phase stability, high efficiency compact IFELs may be obtainable with conventional laser sources.
PRL 110, 244801 (2013)

 






Slides FRIOA01 [5.478 MB]
        
 


 



FRIOA02
Challenges toward attosecond and zeptosecond XFELs
 


 

T. Tanaka
                       RIKEN SPring-8 Center, Sayo-cho, Sayo-gun, Hyogo, Japan

 


 

The X-ray free electron lasers (XFELs) have extended the wavelength tunability of laser sources to hard X-ray regions and have attracted many experimental users from laser science community as well as synchrotron radiation. In addition, the seeding technique which was demonstrated in LCLS in 2012 has drastically improved the temporal coherence of XFELs. Nevertheless, there still remains an important technical challenge in XFELs: How to control the pulse length, especially toward shorter values? Recently, several ideas have been proposed to resolve this issue by means of controlling the timing between X-ray and electron beams. This talk will review novel concepts toward future XFELs with attosecond and zeptosecond pulse lengths.

 






Slides FRIOA02 [2.239 MB]
        
 


 



FRIOA03
RF Guns for FELs
 


 

F. Stephan, M. Krasilnikov
                       DESY Zeuthen, Zeuthen, Germany

 


 

Many FELs need RF guns to produce electron bunches of required quality. Therefore RF guns have become important components for electron linacs. The design of these guns can be technically very challenging. The presentation gives an overview of RF gun technology. The overview on RF Guns for linacs should cover history, current state of the art, difficulties, limitations and possible future developments.

 






Slides FRIOA03 [3.095 MB]
        
 


 



FRIOA04
Production of energetic ion beams using high intensity lasers
 


 

Z. Najmudin
                       Imperial College of Science and Technology, Department of Physics, London, United Kingdom

 


 

Ion acceleration by irradiating ultra-thin foils or gas jets with high intensity laser pulses has been receiving much attention lately. Using this technique, beams of protons with energies up to ~60 MeV have been observed. Although not confirmed yet, it is predicted that the energy can be increased by a factor of 5-10. At the moment the particle distributions produced by such accelerators hardly allows the use of the beam produced for applications like medical isotope production but steady progress in the field might change the situation in the near future. First experiments irradiating cell lines for cancer research with laser accelerated ions have been successfully performed and further experiments at 4 MeV to fit the requirements for radiobiology experiment have been proposed. Within the next 5 years laser based injectors delivering beams of ions at high intensity and repetition rate at energies of 30-40 MeV to conventional linac seem possible. The status of laser accelerated ions together with possible applications will be presented and an outlook on further developments given.

 






Slides FRIOA04 [3.168 MB]
        
 


 



FRIOA05
The Muon Accelerator Program Research Effort
 


 

M.A. Palmer
                       Fermilab, Batavia, Illinois, USA

 


 

Muon accelerator technology offers a unique and very promising avenue to a facility capable of producing high intensity muon beams for neutrino factory and multi-TeV lepton collider applications.  The goal of the US Muon Accelerator Program is to provide an assessment, before the end of this decade, of the physics potential and technical feasibility of such a facility.  The R&D efforts that are being undertaken to address the key accelerator physics and technology questions will be described.

 






Slides FRIOA05 [6.953 MB]
        
 


 



FRIOA06
AWAKE: Advanced Proton Driven Plasma Wakefield Acceleration Experiment at CERN
1196


 

E. Gschwendtner
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Plasma wakefield acceleration is a promising alternative reaching accelerating fields a magnitude of up to 3 higher (GV/m) when compared to conventional RF acceleration. AWAKE, world’s first proton-driven plasma wakefield experiment, was launched at CERN to verify this concept. In this experiment proton bunches at 400 GeV/c will be extracted from the CERN SPS and sent to the plasma cell, where the proton beam drives the plasma wakefields and creates a large accelerating field. This large gradient of ~GV/m can be achieved by relying on the self-modulation instability (SMI) of the proton beam; when seeded by ionization through a short laser pulse, a train of micro-bunches with a period on the order of the plasma wavelength (~mm) develops, which can drive such a large amplitude wake from a long proton bunch (~12 cm). An electron beam will be injected into the plasma to probe the accelerating wakefield. The AWAKE experiment is being installed at CERN in the former CNGS facility, which must be modified to match the AWAKE requirements. First proton beam to the plasma cell is expected by end 2016.

 






Slides FRIOA06 [7.276 MB]
        
 


 




