













LINAC2014 - Table of Session: TUIOA (Invited Orals Electron accelerators)


TUIOA —  Invited Orals Electron accelerators   (02-Sep-14   08:30—10:30)
Chair: Y.H. Chin, KEK, Ibaraki, Japan


Paper
Title
Page



TUIOA01
Status of Swiss FEL
 


 

H.-H. Braun
                       PSI, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

 


 

The SwissFEL hard X-ray FEL is presently under construction at PSI. The injector section including the first bunch compressor stage was extensively tested in a dedicated facility with excellent beam performance results. The 6 GeV driver linac is based on normal conducting C-band technology. The modular linac building block, including the RF source, has been developed by PSI in collaboration with industry. The linac module design provides optimum overall system economy and very good beam dynamic properties. High power tests of all linac module components as well as system tests have been performed successfully. The start of commissioning for the whole facility is scheduled for 2016.

 






Slides TUIOA01 [13.795 MB]
        
 


 



TUIOA02
R&D Efforts for ERLs
394


 

R.G. Eichhorn
                       Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, USA

 


 

The last few years has seen extensive R&D for ERLs, with several prototype facilities now under construction or in operation. The Cornell ERL R&D program has reached major goals, with producing the world’s brightest beam from any photoinjector, reaching CW beam current of greaters than 75 mA, and reaching intrinsic quality factors of 1011 in an SRF cavity installed in a cryomodule. The talk gives an overview of status of ERLs projects, and ERL R&D.

 






Slides TUIOA02 [8.803 MB]
        
 


 



TUIOA03
The MAX IV Linac
400


 

S. Thorin, J. Andersson, F. Curbis, M. Eriksson, O. Karlberg, D. Kumbaro, E. Mansten, D.F. Olsson, S. Werin
                       MAX-lab, Lund, Sweden

 


 

The MAX IV linac will be used both for injection and top up into two storage rings, and as a high brightness injector for a Short Pulse Facility (SPF). The linac has also been deigned to handle the high demands of an FEL injector. In the storage ring injection mode, the linac is operated at 10 Hz with a thermionic RF gun and the electron bunches are kicked out from the linac at either 3 GeV or 1.5 GeV to reach the respective storage ring. For the Short Pulse mode the linac will operate at 100 Hz with a high brightness photo cathode gun. Compression is done in two double achromats with positive R56 and the natural second order momentum compaction, T566, from the achromats is used together with weak sextupoles to linearise longitudinal phase space, leaving no need for a linearising harmonic cavity. The achromat design for bunch compression produces very short, high peak power electron pulses, while minimizing emittance increase. In this paper we present the MAX IV linac design and the status of commissioning which started in March 2014.

 






Slides TUIOA03 [4.202 MB]
        
 


 



TUIOA04
The New LCLS-II Project : Status and Challenges
404


 

J.N. Galayda
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

The LCLS-II was an upgrade of the LCLS which essentially replicated the LCLS in another tunnel using the middle 1/3 of the SLAC S-band linac. In August 2013, the project was doubled in scope and redirected towards providing MHz-rate X-ray pulses from 0.2 to 5.0 keV while still supporting the ongoing program at the LCLS. The accelerator is now based on a 4.0 GeV SCRF linac installed in the front of the SLAC linac tunnel. Status and challenges of LCLS-II in context of July 2013 recommendation of DOE BESAC for a fully coherent, cw, FEL with photon energies up to ~5 keV.

 






Slides TUIOA04 [6.386 MB]
        
 


 



TUIOA05
High-Power Industrial Accelerator ILU-14 for E-Beam and X-Ray Processing
409


 

V.V. Bezuglov, A.A. Bryazgin, K.N. Chernov, B.L. Faktorovich, V.A. Gorbunov, E.N. Kokin, M.V. Korobeynikov, A.N. Lukin, I. Makarov, S.A. Maximov, A.D. Panfilov, V.M. Radchenko, E.A. Shtarklev, A.V. Sidorov, V.V. Tarnetsky, M.A. Tiunov, V.O. Tkachenko, A. YU. Vlasov, L.A. Voronin
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

Growing interest to product irradiation by E-beams and X-rays calls for dedicated industrial electron accelerators. BINP has developed ILU-14 radio-frequency pulsed linear accelerator capable of providing 100 kW beam at 7.5-10 MeV. The accelerator has fast removable X-ray converter and can operate both in e-beam and X-ray processing modes. The machine utilizes a low frequency (176 MHz) 6-cells SW accelerating structure. BINP developed this machine as a turn-a-key equipment. Technical details and test results will be presented.

 






Slides TUIOA05 [4.672 MB]
        
 


 




