













LINAC2014 - Table of Session: TUIOC (Invited Orals Technology)


TUIOC —  Invited Orals Technology   (02-Sep-14   14:00—15:00)
Chair: G. Burt, Cockcroft Institute, Lancaster University, Lancaster, United Kingdom


Paper
Title
Page



TUIOC01
Large Scale Testing of SRF Cavities and Modules
426


 

J. Świerbleski
                       IFJ-PAN, Kraków, Poland

 


 

Series production of SRF cavities, s.c. quadrupole packages and accelerator modules for the European XFEL is in full swing. Mid 2014 approx. 400 cavities will be tested, the testing of quadrupoles will be almost finished, and regular module testing will be established. Thus the talk should emphasize the quasi industrial testing of these components, of course including a good overview about the used somewhat unique AMTF infrastructure.

 






Slides TUIOC01 [3.094 MB]
        
 


 



TUIOC02
Breakthrough technology for very high quality factors in SCRF cavities
 


 

A. Romanenko
                       Fermilab, Batavia, Illinois, USA

 


 

Recently, a new technology for processing SRF cavities was developed at Fermilab, which allows to achieve quality factors (Q) several times higher than those obtained by any other state-of-the-art cavity processing techniques. It is of direct and primary importance for all planned CW accelerators such as LCLS-II, PIP-II, and others since higher Q directly translates into lower wall dissipated power and hence much lower capital and operational costs for the refrigeration system. The technology is based on the slight modification to the standard vacuum degassing at 800C by performing its final part in the small partial pressure of nitrogen. In this talk we will present the most effective and robust recipes developed for single and multicell cavities, and discuss possible underlying physical mechanisms of the drastic Q improvement as deduced by different structural (SIMS, cryo-TEM) and superconducting (LE-muSR, PCT) probes.

 






Slides TUIOC02 [2.717 MB]
        
 


 



TUIOC03
Nb3Sn - Present Status and Potential as an Alternative SRF Material
431


SUPG017
  use link to see paper's listing under its alternate paper code
 


 

S. Posen, M. Liepe
                       Cornell University (CLASSE), Cornell Laboratory for Accelerator-Based Sciences and Education, Ithaca, New York, USA

 


 

Nb3Sn is a material that has the potential to have a transformative impact on SRF linacs. Due to its large critical temperature of approximately 18 K, Nb3Sn cavities can have far smaller surface resistances at a given temperature than standard Nb cavities. This could significantly reduce the costs for infrastructure and power in cryoplants for large CW linacs. In addition, the predicted superheating field of Nb3Sn is approximately double that of Nb, potentially doubling the maximum energy gradient. This would significantly decrease the size and cost of high energy linacs. In this work, we present recent progress in research and development for this promising material.

 






Slides TUIOC03 [3.357 MB]
        
 






Poster TUIOC03 [2.046 MB]
        
 


 




