













LINAC2014 - Table of Session: MOIOC (Invited Orals Electron accelerators & Beam dynamics)


MOIOC —  Invited Orals Electron accelerators & Beam dynamics   (01-Sep-14   14:00—15:00)
Chair: A.V. Aleksandrov, ORNL, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA


Paper
Title
Page



MOIOC01
Status of Superconducting Electron Linac Driver for Rare Ion Beam Production at TRIUMF
31


 

R.E. Laxdal, F. Ames, R.A. Baartman, I.V. Bylinskii, Y.-C. Chao, D. Dale, K. Fong, E.R. Guetre, P. Kolb, S.R. Koscielniak, A. Koveshnikov, M.P. Laverty, Y. Ma, M. Marchetto, L. Merminga, A.K. Mitra, N. Muller, R.R. Nagimov, T. Planche, W.R. Rawnsley, V.A. Verzilov, Z.Y. Yao, Q. Zheng, V. Zvyagintsev
                       TRIUMF, Canada's National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics, Vancouver, Canada

 


 

A MW class cw superconducting electron linac is being installed at TRIUMF as a driver for radioactive beam production through photo-fission. The ARIEL e-linac will house five 1.3GHz nine-cell cavities in three cryomodules and accelerate up to 10mA of electrons to 50MeV. A first phase of installation will see three cavities in two cryomodules installed by the end of 2014. Presently the injector cryomodule is installed and undergoing cryogenic and rf characterizations and beam acceleration tests with beam from the 300kV DC gun. The second cryomodule is being prepared for first tests. The linac status including descriptions and operating performance of installed cryogenic and rf systems, electron gun performance, cryomodule performance and the results of first beam acceleration tests will be reported.

 






Slides MOIOC01 [6.383 MB]
        
 


 



MOIOC02
Single-Knob Beam Line for Transverse Emittance Partitioning
36


 

C. Xiao, L. Groening, O.K. Kester, H. Leibrock, M.T. Maier, P. Rottländer
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
M. Chung
                       UNIST, Ulsan, Republic of Korea

 


 

Flat beams feature unequal emittances in the horizontal and vertical phase space. Such beams were created successfully in electron machines by applying effective stand-alone solenoid fringe fields in the electron gun. Extension of this method to ion beams was proposed conceptually. The present paper is on the decoupling capabilities of an ion beam emittance transfer line. The proposed beam line provides a single-knob tool to partition the horizontal and vertical rms emittances, while keeping the product of the two emittances constant as well as the transverse rms Twiss parameters (αx,y and βx,y) in both planes. It is shown that this single knob is the solenoid field strength, and now we fully understand the decoupling features.

 






Slides MOIOC02 [1.327 MB]
        
 


 



MOIOC03
Model and Beam Based Setup Procedures for a High Power Hadron Superconducting Linac
41


 

A.P. Shishlo
                       ORNL, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA

 


 

This presentation will review methods for experimental determination of optimal operational set points in a multi-cavity superconducting high power hadron linac. A typical tuning process, including establishing correct acceleration profile and RMS bunch size matching, is based on comparison between measured data and the results of simulations from envelope, single and multi-particle models. Presence of significant space charge effects requires simulation and measurement of bunch dynamics in 3 dimensions to ensure low loss beam transport. This is especially difficult in a superconducting linac where use of interceptive diagnostics is usually restricted because of the risk of SRF cavity surface contamination. The procedures discussed here are based on non-interceptive diagnostics such as beam position monitors and laser wires, and conventional diagnostics devices such as wire scanners and bunch shape monitors installed outside the superconducting linac. The longitudinal Twiss analysis based on the BPM signals will be described. The superconducting SNS linac tuning experience will be used to demonstrate problems and their solution for real world linac tune-up procedures.

 






Slides MOIOC03 [1.954 MB]
        
 


 




