













LINAC2014 - Table of Session: THIOB (Invited Orals Technology)


THIOB —  Invited Orals Technology   (04-Sep-14   11:00—12:30)
Chair: M. Vretenar, CERN, Geneva, Switzerland


Paper
Title
Page



THIOB01
Cryogenic Plants for SRF Linacs
811


 

D. Arenius
                       JLab, Newport News, Virginia, USA

 


 

Review of the types of considerations that go into cryo-plant design. Arenius is a world expert on this topic and has led the completion of the upgraded cryo-plant at Jefferson Lab, and has recently provided substantial input on this question to the new LCLS II project.

 






Slides THIOB01 [4.382 MB]
        
 


 



THIOB02
SPIRAL2 Cryomodule Production Result and Analysis
814


 

P.-E. Bernaudin, R. Ferdinand
                       GANIL, Caen, France
P. Bosland, C. Marchand
                       CEA/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
Y. Gómez Martínez
                       LPSC, Grenoble Cedex, France
D. Longuevergne, G. Olry
                       IPN, Orsay, France

 


 

The production and qualification of the SPIRAL2 cryomodules are close to the end. Their performances are now well established. This paper will explain the path followed to the good achievements, and show some statistical analyses to be used for future projects. How far can we push the performances? What cryogenics consumption shall we take as design values?

 






Slides THIOB02 [2.864 MB]
        
 


 



THIOB03
Results From the LCLS X-Band Transverse Deflector With Femtosecond Temporal Resolution
819


 

Y. Ding, F.-J. Decker, V.A. Dolgashev, J.C. Frisch, Z. Huang, P. Krejcik, H. Loos, A. Lutmann, A. Marinelli, T.J. Maxwell, D.F. Ratner, J.L. Turner, J.W. Wang, M.-H. Wang, J.J. Welch, J. Wu
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA
C. Behrens
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

An X-band RF transverse deflector composed of two 1-m-long X-band deflecting structures has been recently commissioned at the Linac Coherent Light Source (LCLS) at SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory. Located downstream of the FEL undulator, this device provides electron beam longitudinal phase space diagnostics in both time and energy which enables reconstruction of the X-ray FEL power profiles with an unprecedented resolution. This talk reports on the progress of this new LCLS X-band transverse deflector, first usage experience and measured results.

 






Slides THIOB03 [3.508 MB]
        
 


 



THIOB04
Observation of >GV/m Decelerating Fields in Dielectric Lined Waveguides
 


TUPP140
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


SUPG026
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

B.D. O'Shea, G. Andonian, K.L. Fitzmorris, S. Hakimi, J. Harrison, J.B. Rosenzweig, O. Williams
                       UCLA, Los Angeles, California, USA
M.J. Hogan, V. Yakimenko
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Recent experimental measurements of the energy lost to wakefields in a dielectric lined waveguide are presented. These measurements demonstrate average decelerating gradients on the order of >1 GV/m, for two different structures. The measurements were made at the Facility for Advanced aCcelerator Experimental Tests (FACET) at SLAC National Laboratory using sub-millimeter diameter fifteen-centimeter long quartz fibers of annular cross section. The unique extremely short, high charge, ultra relativistic beam at FACET (200 fs, 3 nC, 20 GeV) allows the use of dielectric wakefield structures of unprecedented size and length. In addition to experimental results, we support conclusions with simulation and theoretical work. This measurement builds on a large body of work previously performed using dielectric wakefield structures in an effort to provide high gradient accelerating structures for tomorrows linear colliders.

 


 




