













LINAC2014 - Table of Session: MOIOB (Invited Orals Electron accelerators)


MOIOB —  Invited Orals Electron accelerators   (01-Sep-14   11:00—12:30)
Chair: Y. Yamazaki, FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA


Paper
Title
Page



MOIOB01
Early Commissioning Experience and Future Plans for the 12 GeV Continuous Electron Beam Accelerator Facility
11


 

M. Spata
                       JLab, Newport News, Virginia, USA

 


 

Jefferson Lab has recently completed the accelerator portion of the 12 GeV Upgrade for the Continuous Electron Beam Accelerator Facility. All 52 SRF cryomodules have been commissioned and operated with beam. The initial beam transport goals of demonstrating 2.2 GeV per pass, greater than 6 GeV in 3 passes to an existing experimental facility and greater than 10 GeV in 5-1/2 passes have all been accomplished. These results along with future plans to commission the remaining beamlines and to increase the performance of the accelerator to achieve reliable, robust and efficient operations at 12 GeV are presented.

 






Slides MOIOB01 [2.754 MB]
        
 


 



MOIOB02
Optimizing RF Linacs as Drivers for Inverse Compton Sources: the ELI-NP Case
16


 

C. Vaccarezza, D. Alesini, M. Bellaveglia, R. Boni, E. Chiadroni, G. Di Pirro, M. Ferrario, A. Gallo, G. Gatti, A. Ghigo, B. Spataro, P. Tomassini
                       INFN/LNF, Frascati (Roma), Italy
A. Bacci, D.T. Palmer, V. Petrillo, A.R. Rossi, L. Serafini
                       Istituto Nazionale di Fisica Nucleare, Milano, Italy
A. Cianchi
                       Università di Roma II Tor Vergata, Roma, Italy
I.V. Drebot
                       Universita' degli Studi di Milano e INFN, Milano, Italy
A. Giribono, A. Mostacci, L. Palumbo
                       Rome University La Sapienza, Roma, Italy
C. Ronsivalle
                       ENEA C.R. Frascati, Frascati (Roma), Italy

 


 

The design guide-lines of RF Linacs to fulfill the requirements of high spectral density Inverse Compton Sources for the photo-nuclear science are mostly mutuated from the expertise coming from high brightness electron Linacs driving X-ray FEL's. The main difference is the quest for maximum phase space density (instead of peak brightness), but many common issues and techniques are exploited, in order to achieve an optimum design and lay-out for the machine. A relevant example in this field is the design of the hybrid C-band multi-bunch RF Linacs for the ELI-NP Gamma Beam System, aiming at improving by two orders of magnitude the present state of the art in spectral density available for the gamma-ray beam produced.

 






Slides MOIOB02 [2.542 MB]
        
 


 



MOIOB03
Generation and Acceleration of Low-Emittance, High-Current Electron Beams for SuperKEKB
21


 

M. Yoshida, N. Iida, S. Kazama, T. Natsui, Y. Ogawa, S. Ohsawa, L. Zang, X. Zhou
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

KEK e−/e+ linac is now in a final stage of upgrade for SuperKEKB. One of the key issues is to stably generate and accelerate a low-emittance, high charge  electron beam for SuperKEKB (a couple of single-bunched beams with a charge of 5 nC and a normalized emittance of 20 mm-mmrad each).

 






Slides MOIOB03 [3.981 MB]
        
 


 



MOIOB04
Current Status of PAL-XFEL
26


 

I.S. Ko, J.H. Han
                       PAL, Pohang, Kyungbuk, Republic of Korea

 


 

The PAL-XFEL project aims to produce 0.1~nm coherent X-ray laser to photon beam users. In order to produce such photons, there are 10 GeV electron linac based on S-band normal conducting accelerating structures and a 150 m long out-vacuum undulator system. The project was already started in April 2011, and the 1.1 km long building is expected to be completed by December 2014. The injector test facility (ITF) which is for a test of the first 139 MeV section of the main linac has been installed and is in normal operation at the extension of the PLS linac building. In this paper, we introduce the project in general, a brief summary of site preparation and building construction, beam test results of ITF, and test results of subsystems produced by domestic manufacturers

 






Slides MOIOB04 [9.901 MB]
        
 


 




