













LINAC2014 - Table of Session: MOPOL (Poster Oral Presentations)


MOPOL —  Poster Oral Presentations   (01-Sep-14   15:00—16:00)
Chair: D. Raparia, BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA


Paper
Title
Page



MOPOL01
High Energy Electron Radiography Experiment Research Based on Picosecond Pulse-width Bunch
 


MOPP015
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

Q.T. Zhao, S. Cao, R. Cheng, X.K. Shen, Z.M. Zhang, Y.T. Zhao
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China
Y.-C. Du
                       TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China
W. Gai
                       ANL, Argonne, Illinois, USA

 


 

A new scheme is proposed that high energy electron beam as a probe is used for time resolved imaging measurement of high energy density materials, especially for high energy density matter and inertial confinement fusion. The first picosecond pulse-width electron radiography experiment was achieved by Institute of Modern Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Tinghua University (THU), based on THU Linear electron accelerator (LINAC). It is used for principle test and certifying that this kind of LINAC with ultra-short pulse electron bunch can be used for electron radiography. The experiment results, such as magnifying factor and the imaging distortion, are consistent with the beam optical theory well. The 2.5 um RMS spatial resolution has been gotten with magnifying factor 46, with no optimization the imaging lens section. It is found that in the certain range of magnifying factor, the RMS spatial resolution will get better with bigger magnifying factor. The details of experiment set up, results, analysis and discussions are presented here.

 


 



MOPOL02
X-band Technology for FEL Sources
 


MOPP023
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

G. D'Auria, S. Di Mitri, C. Serpico
                       Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A., Basovizza, Italy
E. Adli
                       University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway
A.A. Aksoy, Ö. Yavaş
                       Ankara University, Accelerator Technologies Institute, Golbasi / Ankara, Turkey
D. Angal-Kalinin, J.A. Clarke
                       STFC/DL/ASTeC, Daresbury, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom
C.J. Bocchetta, A.I. Wawrzyniak
                       Solaris, Kraków, Poland
M.J. Boland, T.K. Charles, R.T. Dowd, G. LeBlanc, Y.E. Tan, K.P. Wootton, D. Zhu
                       SLSA, Clayton, Australia
G. Burt
                       Lancaster University, Lancaster, United Kingdom
N. Catalán Lasheras, A. Grudiev, A. Latina, D. Schulte, S. Stapnes, I. Syratchev, W. Wuensch
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
W. Fang, Q. Gu
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China
E.N. Gazis
                       National Technical University of Athens, Athens, Greece
M. Jacewicz, R.J.M.Y. Ruber, V.G. Ziemann
                       Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden
X.J.A. Janssen
                       VDL ETG, Eindhoven, The Netherlands

 


 

As is widely recognized, fourth generation Light Sources are based on FELs driven by Linacs. Soft and hard X-ray FEL facilities are presently operational at several laboratories, SLAC (LCLS), Spring-8 (SACLA), Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste (FERMI), DESY (FLASH), or are in the construction phase, PSI (SwissFEL), PAL (PAL-XFEL), DESY (European X-FEL), SLAC (LCLS II), or are newly proposed in many laboratories. Most of the above mentioned facilities use NC S-band (3 GHz) or C-band (6 GHz) linacs for generating a multi-GeV low emittance beam. The use of the C-band increases the linac operating gradients, with an overall reduction of the machine length and cost. These advantages, however, can be further enhanced by using X-band (12 GHz) linacs that operate with gradients twice that given by C-band technology. With the low bunch charge option, currently considered for future X-ray FELs, X-band technology offers a low cost and compact solution for generating multi-GeV, low emittance bunches. The paper reports the ongoing activities in the framework of a collaboration among several laboratories for the development and validation of X-band technology for FEL based photon sources.

 


 



MOPOL03
Experimental Verification Towards Feed-Forward Ground Motion Mitigation at ATF2
 


MOPP032
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

J. Pfingstner, K. Artoos, C. Charrondière, S.M. Janssens, M. Patecki, Y. Renier, D. Schulte, R. Tomás
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
A. Jeremie
                       IN2P3-LAPP, Annecy-le-Vieux, France
K. Kubo, S. Kuroda, T. Naito, T. Okugi, T. Tauchi, N. Terunuma
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

Without counter measures, ground motion effects would deteriorate the performance of future linear colliders to an unacceptable level. An envisioned new ground motion mitigation method (based on feed-forward control) has the potential to improve the performance and to reduce the system cost compared to other proposed methods. For the experimental verification of this feed-forward scheme, a dedicated measurement setup has been installed at ATF2 at KEK. In this paper, the progress on this experimental verification is described. An important part of the feed-forward scheme could be already demonstrated, namely the prediction of the orbit jitter due to ground motion measurements.

 


 



MOPOL04
Bridging the Gap Between Conventional RF Acceleration and Laser Driven Acceleration
 


MOPP128
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

M.V. Fazio, V.A. Dolgashev, S.G. Tantawi
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

For decades conventional RF accelerators have been built and operated with ever increasing capability through a few tens of gigahertz in frequency. More recent research takes advantage of the continuing development of high peak power short pulse lasers to drive accelerator structures at optical frequencies. This jump from RF to optical frequencies skips four orders of magnitude in wavelength. With recent experiments that demonstrate high gradients in metallic structures at millimeter wavelengths one is compelled to consider the viability of new approaches for acceleration in the millimeter-wave to terahertz regime. This paper will explore some of these possibilities.

 


 



MOPOL05
Operation of the LINAC and the LINAC RF System for the Ion-Beam Therapy Center Heidelberg
 


MOPP067
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

E. Feldmeier, R. Cee, Th. Haberer
                       HIT, Heidelberg, Germany

 


 

The Heidelberg Ion Therapy Center HIT is in clinical operation since 2009. It is the first dedicated european particle accelerator for medical treatment. Its central location on the campus of the Heidelberg University Hospital fits perfectly in the clinical everyday life. The accelerator complex consists of a linear accelerator and a synchrotron and is designed for protons and carbon ions, but can also provide helium and oxygen ions. The LINAC, build in 2006, operates since 5 years in a 24/7 schema which leads to 60000 operating hours up to now. The performance with an availibility of better than 99% is much higher than expected and is caused by a solid design and a well planned and foresighted maintenance. Unavoidable failures during operation can be solved very fast with the on site experts for each section. The combination of personnel spare parts and permanent ongoing developments is very successful. An upgrade program for parts of the linac and also for the RF system is in planning to keep the uptime high and to improve the performance for further needs.

 


 



MOPOL06
SNS Linac Upgrade Plans for the Second Target Station
 


MOPP114
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

J. Galambos, D.E. Anderson, M.P. Howell, S.-H. Kim, M.A. Plum, A.P. Shishlo
                       ORNL, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA
M.E. Middendorf
                       ORNL RAD, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA

 


 

Funding: ORNL is managed by UT-Battelle, LLC, under contract DE-AC05-00OR22725 for the U.S. Department of Energy.
The Second Target Station (STS) upgrade for the Spallation Neutron Source (SNS) proposes the addition of a short pulse, long wavelength neutron scattering station. In order to provide world-class intensity at the additional station, the SNS linac beam power capability is doubled, to 2.8 MW. This will be accommodated by a 30% increase in the beam energy to 1.3 GeV and a 50% increase in beam current. The beam energy increase will be provided by the addition of 7 additional cyro-modules and supporting RF equipment in space provided during the original SNS construction. The beam current increase will be provided by improved ion source and a reduced chopping fraction, and will require increases in the RF and high voltage modulator systems to accommodate the additional beam loading. Initial plans will be presented. The proposed linac upgrade path will be described.

 


 



MOPOL07
Cool Down and Flux Trapping Studies on SRF Cavities
 


MOPP017
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

D. Gonnella, M. Liepe
                       Cornell University (CLASSE), Cornell Laboratory for Accelerator-Based Sciences and Education, Ithaca, New York, USA

 


 

Recent results from Cornell and FNAL have shown that cool down rate can have a strong impact on the residual resistance of a superconducting RF cavity during operation. We have studied the effect of cool down rate, gradient, and external magnetic field during cool down on the residual resistance of an EP, EP+120C baked, and nitrogen-doped cavities. For each cavity, faster cool down and large gradient resulted in lower residual resistance in vertical test. The nitrogen-doped cavities showed the largest improvement with fast cool down, while the EP+120C cavity showed the smallest. The cavities were also placed in a uniform external magnetic field and residual resistance was measured as a function of applied field and cool down rate. We show that the nitrogen-doped cavity was the most susceptible to losses from trapped flux and the EP+120C cavity was least susceptible. These measurements provide new insights into understanding the physics behind the observed impact of cool down rates and gradients on the performance of cavities with differing preparations.

 


 



MOPOL08
Nondestructive Diagnostics of Proton Beam Halo and Transverse Bunch Position by Cerenkov Slow Wave Structures
 


MOPP084
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

S.V. Kuzikov, M.B. Goykhman, A.V. Gromov, A.V. Palitsin, Yu.V. Rodin, A.A. Vikharev
                       IAP/RAS, Nizhny Novgorod, Russia

 


 

An appearance of the halo around bunch of particles is very undesirable destructive phenomenon in high-intensity proton accelerators. We suggest using built-in short BWO section in form of the corrugated metallic waveguide, in order to control particle distribution in real time. In BWO low velocity proton bunch has synchronism with slow spatial harmonic of TM01 wave. Fields of slow harmonic sharply grow in direction from axis to walls and rf power, generated by flying bunch of the given charge, critically depends on transverse bunch size. Results of the simulation, carried out for 20 pC proton bunch of 10 ps duration, show that in 5 GHz BWO of 30 cm length the output rf pulse of several nanosecond duration is varied from mW- level (for 1 mm transverse bunch size) to several tens of mW (for bunch of 20 mm radius). This power level is high enough to control halo appearance in each single proton bunch. The producible rf power in a BWO is also dependent on bunch deflection from axis. This effect we plan to use, in order to provide transverse bunch position monitoring by means of two additional rectangular slow wave section which have corrugations on mutually perpendicular walls.

 


 



MOPOL09
Emittance Measurement for SPring-8 Linac Using Four Six-Electrode BPMs
 


MOPP095
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

K. Yanagida, H. Hanaki, S. Suzuki
                       JASRI/SPring-8, Hyogo-ken, Japan

 


 

In the SPring-8 linear accelerator (linac) six-electrode beam position monitors (BPMs) have been installed to measure second-order moments. At the end of the linac where the electron beam energy is 1 GeV four quadrupole magnets are utilized for twiss parameter matching toward the following beam transport line. Last year four six-electrode BPMs were installed at the locations of these four quadrupole magnets for an emittance measurement. The relative second-order moments were obtained changing the magnetic field strength of the quadrupole magnets, then beam sizes, emittances and twiss parameters were deduced or calculated. At this time we applied one pair of beam sizes measured by the screen monitor for a precise determination of emittances but we try to implement non-destructive measurement with no screen monitor. Before the emittance measurement a calibration with fifth-order moment correction was carried out changing beam positions at the BPM locations using upstream steering magnets (the entire calibration).

 






Slides MOPOL09 [0.984 MB]
        
 


 



MOPOL10
Plasma Processing of Nb Surfaces for SRF Cavities
 


MOPP115
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

P.V. Tyagi, M. Doleans, S.-H. Kim
                       ORNL, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA
R. Afanador, C.J. McMahan
                       ORNL RAD, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA

 


 

Funding: This work is supported by SNS through UT-Battelle, LLC, under contract DE-AC05-00OR22725 for the U.S. DOE.
Field emission is one of the most critical issues to achieve high performances of niobium (Nb) superconducting radio frequency (SRF) cavities. Field emission is mainly related to contaminants present at top surface of SRF cavities that act as electron emitters at high gradient operation and limit the cavity accelerating gradient. An R&D program at the Spallation Neutron Source (SNS) is in place* aiming to develop an in-situ plasma processing technique to remove some of the residual contaminants from inner surfaces of Nb cavities and improve their performance. The plasma processing R&D has first concentrated on removing hydrocarbon contamination from top surface of SRF cavities. Results from the surface studies on plasma processed Nb samples will be presented in this article and showed the removal of hydrocarbons from Nb surfaces as well as improvement of the surface workfuntion (WF).
*M. Doleans et al. “Plasma processing R&D for the SNS superconducting linac RF cavities” Proceedings of 2013 SRF workshop, Paris, France

 






Slides MOPOL10 [1.405 MB]
        
 


 



MOPOL12
Studies of Coherent Synchrotron Radiation in the Jefferson Lab FEL Driver with Implications for Bunch Compression
 


MOPP139
  use link to access more material from this paper's primary paper code
 


 

C. Tennant, D. Douglas, R. Li
                       JLab, Newport News, Virginia, USA
C.-Y. Tsai
                       Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Blacksburg, Virginia, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the Office of Naval Research and the High Energy Laser Joint Technology. Jefferson Laboratory work is supported under U.S. DOE Contract No. DE-AC05-06OR23177.
The Jefferson Laboratory IR FEL Driver provides an ideal test bed for studying a variety of beam dynamical effects. Recent studies focused on characterizing the impact of coherent synchrotron radiation (CSR) with the goal of benchmarking measurements with simulation. Following measurements to characterize the beam, we quantitatively characterized energy extraction via CSR by measuring beam position at a dispersed location as a function of bunch compression. In addition to operating with the beam on the rising part of the linac RF waveform, measurements were also made while accelerating on the falling part. For each, the full compression point was moved along the backleg of the machine and the response of the beam (distribution, extracted energy) measured. Initial results of start-to-end simulations using a 1D CSR algorithm show remarkably good agreement with measurements. A subsequent experiment established lasing with the beam accelerated on the falling side of the RF waveform in conjunction with positive momentum compaction (R56) to compress the bunch. The success of this experiment motivated the design of a modified CEBAF-style arc with control of CSR and microbunching effects.

 


 




