













LINAC2014 - Table of Session: WEIOA (Invited Orals Technology)


WEIOA —  Invited Orals Technology   (03-Sep-14   08:30—10:30)
Chair: R.E. Laxdal, TRIUMF, Canada's National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics, Vancouver, Canada


Paper
Title
Page



WEIOA01
Construction and RF Conditioning of the Cell-Coupled Drift Tube Linac (CCDTL) for Linac4 at CERN
746


 

A.G. Tribendis, Y.A. Biryuchevsky, E. Kendjebulatov, Ya.G. Kruchkov, E. Rotov, A.A. Zhukov
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia
Y. Cuvet, A. Dallocchio, J.-F. Fuchs, F. Gerigk, J.-M. Giguet, J. Hansen, T. Muranaka, E. Page, B. Riffaud, N. Thaus, M. Tortrat, M. Vretenar, R. Wegner
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
M.Y. Naumenko
                       RFNC-VNIITF, Snezhinsk, Chelyabinsk region, Russia

 


 

This paper reports on the construction experience of the Linac4 CCDTL, which took place in two Russian institutes in the framework of three ISTC projects in close collaboration with CERN. The tanks were constructed at VNIITF, Snezhinsk, while the drift tubes and supports were made at BINP, Novosibirsk. All structures were then assembled and tuned at BINP before shipment to CERN where the high-power conditioning took place. The tuning principles, quality checks and conditioning results are presented.

 






Slides WEIOA01 [4.909 MB]
        
 


 



WEIOA02
New applications of high-gradient RF linacs
 


 

A. Grudiev
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

An introduction and a short review of the state-of-the-art of high gradient linac research and development in the frame work of linear collider study and beyond will be given. Possible applications of the high gradient linacs in the field of X-ray FELs and medical linacs will be discussed.

 






Slides WEIOA02 [4.583 MB]
        
 


 



WEIOA03
New X-band and above high gradient linacs
 


 

S.G. Tantawi, M.V. Fazio
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

During the past few years we gained a qualitative understanding of the basic physics of breakdown phenomena in high vacuum RF structures. With this understanding we have been able to demonstrate accelerator structures with gradient extended to 175 MV/m, well above the state of the art. This was accomplished with the understanding of geometrical effects and material properties. To push the gradient further, the scaling lows developed to date requires us to increase the frequency to reduce the filing time and use very short pulses at the same order as the filling time. Indeed, initial experimental investigation shows the possibility of a 1GV/m structure at W-band for a structure that operates for only 3 ns. The next stage of developments can not only address the next generation of high gradient structure technologies but also has to address the efficient production and utilization of RF power for linacs. We will present the development of RF accelerator structures aimed at operating frequency from mm-wave to THz. We also present the experimental results of novel rf sources aimed to be integrated with these structure for an efficient overall system.

 






Slides WEIOA03 [15.516 MB]
        
 


 



WEIOA04
Phase Locked Magnetrons for Accelerators
751


 

A.C. Dexter
                       Cockcroft Institute, Lancaster University, Lancaster, United Kingdom

 


 

Magnetrons offer lower capital costs and higher efficiencies than klystrons, however are natural oscillators rather than amplifiers. This paper reviews techniques and issues for applying high efficiency L band magnetrons to long pulse, high intensity proton linacs. Reference is made to a proof of principle experiment whereby the phase of an SRF cavity was accurately controlled when energised by a magnetron.

 






Slides WEIOA04 [1.224 MB]
        
 


 



WEIOA05
High Power RF Sources for the ESS RF Systems
756


 

M. Jensen, G. Göransson, C. Marrelli, C. Martins, R. Montaño, A. Sunesson, R.A. Yogi, R. Zeng
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden
A.J. Johansson
                       Lund University, Lund, Sweden

 


 

The RF system for ESS will consist of around 150 high power RF sources and will deliver 125 MW peak power to the proton beam during the 2.86 ms pulse with an average power of 5 MW. The two RF frequencies, 352 and 704 MHz, the different power requirements along the linac and the sources currently available strongly influence the choice of RF technology. This talk will focus on the high power RF solutions for the main parts of the linac. We present an overview of the available technology along with the first test results of the main sources. Additionally, we will present the preliminary design of a new 1.2 MW multi-beam super power IOT being designed together with industry for the high beta section of the linac.

 






Slides WEIOA05 [5.090 MB]
        
 


 



WEIOA06
Low Level RF for SRF Accelerators
760


 

J. Branlard
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

Low level radio frequency (LLRF) systems are a fundamental component of superconducting RF accelerators. Since the release of the MicroTCA standard (MTCA.4), major developments in MTCA.4-based LLRF systems have taken place. State-of-the-art LLRF designs deliver better than 10-4 relative amplitude and 10 mdeg phase stability for the vector sum control of SRF cavities. These developments in LLRF systems architecture and technology, driven by research institutes and supported by the industry are of highest importance for the European XFEL, but also for other SRF-based projects such as LCLS-II and the ESS, as well as for the next generation accelerators with 10-5 and mdeg regulation requirements.

 






Slides WEIOA06 [5.812 MB]
        
 


 




