













PAC2013 - Table of Session: THOCA (Contributed Oral Presentations, Alternative Acceleration Schemes)


THOCA —  Contributed Oral Presentations, Alternative Acceleration Schemes   (03-Oct-13   12:00—12:30)
Chair: M.J. Hogan, SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA


Paper
Title
Page



THOCA1
X-ray Radiation and Electron Injection from Beam Envelope Oscillations in Plasma Wakefield Accelerator Experiments at FACET
1105


 

K.A. Marsh, W. An, C.E. Clayton, C. Joshi, W. Lu, W.B. Mori, N. Vafaei-Najafabadi
                       UCLA, Los Angeles, California, USA
E. Adli
                       University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway
E. Adli, C.I. Clarke, S. Corde, J.-P. Delahaye, R.J. England, A.S. Fisher, J.T. Frederico, S.J. Gessner, M.J. Hogan, S.Z. Li, M.D. Litos, D.R. Walz, Z. Wu
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA
W. Lu
                       TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China
P. Muggli
                       MPI, Muenchen, Germany

 


 

Funding: The work at UCLA was supported by DOE grant DE-FG02-92-ER40727 and NSF grant PHY-0936266. The work at SLAC was supported by Department of Energy Contract DE-AC02-76SF00515.
Plasma wakefield accelerator experiments at FACET at the SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory have shown a correlation between ionization-injected electrons and the betatron x-ray yield. Emittance spoiling foils were inserted into the beam and the x-ray yield, excess charge, and beam energy loss was measured. The excess charge and x-ray yield are attributed to the beam envelope oscillations where at the minima, the field of the beam is strong enough to create secondary ionization, and at the electron oscillation maxima, the beam electrons spontaneously radiate x-rays. Large amplitude beam oscillations are expected to yield more x-rays and create more excess charge, but the results show beam head erosion strongly limits the wakefield excitation.

 






Slides THOCA1 [3.281 MB]
            
 


 



THOCA2
Experimental Progress on Staged Laser-plasma Acceleration
1108


 

S. Shiraishi, C. Benedetti, E. Esarey, C.G.R. Geddes, A.J. Gonsalves, W. Leemans, N.H. Matlis, K. Nakamura, C.B. Schroeder, B. Shaw, T. Sokollik, S. Steinke, C. Tóth, J. van Tilborg
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA

 


 

Funding: This work is supported by the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract No. DE-AC02-05CH11231 and the National Science Foundation.
Laser-plasma accelerators (LPAs)* have produced GeV electron beams (e-beams) from cm-scale devices, demonstrating that LPAs have great potential for reducing accelerator size and cost**]. LPA experiments performed to date utilize a single laser that drives the wakefield for injection and acceleration. For applications such as high-energy accelerators, LPA designs will rely on sequencing multiple acceleration stages, each driven by its own laser***. We present recent progress on the experiment staging two LPA modules at the LOASIS Program at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. The experiment utilizes a 40 TW class laser which is split into two laser pulses. The first laser drives the first LPA module to produce an e-beam. The second laser drives the second LPA module and accelerates the e-beam from the first LPA. Excited wakefields in the second LPA module are diagnosed through spectral redshifting of the drive laser, which is an indicator of the efficiency of laser energy transfer into the plasma through the generation of coherent plasma wakefields****.
* E. Esarey, C.B. Schroeder, and W.P. Leemans, Rev. Mod. Phys. 81 (2009).  ** W.P. Leemans, et al., Nature Physics 2, 696 (2006).  *** W.P. Leemans and E. Esarey, Physics Today 62, 44 (2009). **** B.A. Shadwick, et al. Phys. Plasmas 16, 056704 (2009).

 






Slides THOCA2 [18.166 MB]
            
 


 




