













PAC2013 - Table of Session: MOPSM (Poster Session)


MOPSM —  Poster Session   (30-Sep-13   16:30—18:00)



Paper
Title
Page



MOPSM01
High Voltage Stabilization System of CARIBU/ECR for ATLAS
348


 

Y. Luo, R.C. Pardo, G. Savard, S.I. Sharamentov, R.C. Vondrasek
                       ANL, Argonne, USA

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Nuclear Physics, under Contract No. DE-AC02-06-CH11357.
With the increased radioactive beam capabilities brought by new CARIBU (Californium Rare Isotope Breeder Upgrade) in ATLAS facility, highest charge breeder efficiency of ECR is desired. Experimental study shows that the best efficiency could be achieved when high voltages (up to 50KV) of two platforms (CARIBU and ECR) are only different within less than 1V. We have developed a system with some innovative ideas implemented to measure the required tiny voltage difference ratio (~0.002%) precisely and to protect the system too. High voltage (HV) filter is designed to protect it from severe HV sparks and multiple level of relays with high precision medium HV divider are used to protect it from possible power supply failure. Homemade HV divider is used for rough measurement and control. Measurement results are converted to optical signals and then used to control power supplies to achieve the desired platform voltages. The system has been partially tested and will be used in the future.

 


 



MOPSM02
Design and Simulation of the Argonne Inflight Radiactive Ion Separator
351


 

B. Mustapha, M. Alcorta, B. Back, P.N. Ostroumov
                       ANL, Argonne, USA

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Nuclear Physics, under Contract DE-AC02-06CH11357.
A new inflight radioactive ion separator (AIRIS) is being designed for the ATLAS facility at Argonne. AIRIS will be used to separate and produce secondary radioactive beams from the interaction of ATLAS primary beams in a production target. AIRIS will be at least 10 times more efficient than the existing radioactive beam capability. We have made significant progress in the design and simulations of AIRIS including full 3D models of all the elements to consider their real dimensions and produce realistic 3D fields. The resolving power of the device has been studied for several reaction cases using realistic cross sections and kinematics. In addition to the magnetic separation of the device, a RF sweeper is being designed to take advantage of the time separation of the different beams and reject the primary beam tail and other potential contaminants in order to produce higher purity secondary beams. The latest AIRIS design and simulation results will be presented and discussed.

 


 



MOPSM05
Diagnostics for the LANSCE RFQ Front-End Test Stand
354


 

R.C. McCrady, Y.K. Batygin, I. Draganić, C.M. Fortgang, R.W. Garnett, S.S. Kurennoy, J.F. O'Hara, E.R. Olivas, L. Rybarcyk
                       LANL, Los Alamos, New Mexico, USA

 


 

Plans are underway at the Los Alamos Neutron Science Center to replace the existing H+ Cockcroft-Walton injector with a modern 4-rod Radio-Frequency Quadrupole (RFQ) based front end. This will provide protons for injection into the downstream linac, where H− ions are also accelerated. This dual-species operation of the linac imposes constraints on the injectors, resulting in particular requirements on the transverse and longitudinal emittances and phase-space distributions of the beam from the RFQ proton injector. Good measurements of these quantities are therefore required during the testing phase of the RFQ injector. In this paper we describe the measurements to be made and plans for the systems for carrying out the measurements.

 


 



MOPSM06
Design and Cold Test of a 17 GHz Overmoded Hybrid PBG Accelerator Cavity
357


 

J.X. Zhang, A.M. Cook, B.J. Munroe, M.A. Shapiro, R.J. Temkin
                       MIT/PSFC, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by US DOE, High Energy Physics, Grant DE-SC0010075
An overmoded hybrid Photonic Band Gap (PBG) structure used as an accelerator cavity has been theoretically designed. The PBG structure consists of a triangular lattice of dielectric (sapphire) and metallic rods. The birefringence of the sapphire affects the PBG eigenmodes and must be taken into account. The PBG cavity formed by rods in between two copper plates will be operated in a TM02 mode at 17 GHz. Arrangement of the rods for higher-order-mode (HOM) damping demonstrates high frequency selectivity. Comparison with a disk-loaded waveguide (DLW) cavity gives a perspective of the dielectric PBG structure operated at an accelerating gradient of 100 MV/m. Cold test of a single hybrid PBG cell presents a high-Q resonance at 17 GHz. A standing-wave (SW) hybrid PBG structure will be tested in TM02 mode at 17 GHz.

 


 



MOPSM07
Results From the Linac Commissioning of the Rare Isotope Reaccelerator - ReA
360


 

W. Wittmer, D.M. Alt, C. Benatti, S.W. Krause, A. Lapierre, D. Leitner, F. Montes, S. Nash, R. Rencsok, M.J. Syphers, X. Wu
                       NSCL, East Lansing, Michigan, USA
L.Y. Lin, J.A. Rodriguez, E. Tanke
                       FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA

 


 

Funding: The NSCL is funded in part by the National Science Foundation and Michigan State University.
ReA is a radioactive ion beams post­accelerator currently being completed at the National Superconducting Cyclotron Laboratory at Michigan State University. ReA is designed to reaccelerate rare isotopes to energies of a few MeV/u following production by projectile fragmentation and thermalization in a gas cell. The facility consists of five main components: an electron­beam ion trap (EBIT) charge breeder, an achromatic charge ­over­ mass separator, a radio­frequency quadrupole accelerator, a superconducting radio­ frequency linear accelerator (SRF LINAC) and a transport line into the experimental hall. The first sections up to the SRF LINAC of ReA have been commissioned in the last two years using the off­line stable ion beam source and the heavy ion beams from the EBIT charge breeder. The final section, transporting beam from the LINAC into the experimental hall, will be completed and commissioned early this summer. This paper presents the results of the SRF cryo module characterization and the progress of the machine optics model.

 


 




