













PAC2013 - Table of Session: THPBA (Poster Session)


THPBA —  Poster Session   (03-Oct-13   16:30—18:00)



Paper
Title
Page



THPBA01
Beam Dynamics Driven Requirements on the ARIEL e-linac SRF Separator Cavity
1223


 

D.W. Storey
                       Victoria University, Victoria, B.C., Canada
Y.-C. Chao, L. Merminga
                       TRIUMF, Canada's National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics, Vancouver, Canada

 


 

Funding: Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada
A possible future extension to TRIUMF's ARIEL e-linac is the addition of a recirculation path for an Energy Recovery Linac (ERL), which will drive an Infrared Free Electron Laser (FEL). The ERL electron beam will be interleaved with the single-pass beam bound for Rare Isotope Beam (RIB) production in the ARIEL facilities, allowing for simultaneous beam delivery to both FEL and RIB users. A superconducting RF separator will separate the beams at the exit of the linac at a frequency of 650MHz in CW mode. After a second pass through the linac, the energy recovered ERL beam will pass through the separator cavity out of phase with the deflecting fields, and at a much lower energy, before continuing to a beam dump. Using the General Particle Tracer software, three-dimensional simulations of the beam dynamics of the passing beams have been performed to determine the requirements on the SRF separator's deflecting field uniformity. Operation of the FEL requires minimal emittance dilution of the ERL beam from the separator. This contribution describes the results of these studies and the requirements imposed on the SRF beam separator.

 


 



THPBA02
Feasibility of an RF Dipole Cavity for the ARIEL e-linac SRF Separator
1226


 

D.W. Storey
                       Victoria University, Victoria, B.C., Canada
R.E. Laxdal, L. Merminga, V. Zvyagintsev
                       TRIUMF, Canada's National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics, Vancouver, Canada

 


 

Funding: Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada
A megawatt class CW e-linac is being designed and constructed at TRIUMF with the main goal of producing neutron rich isotopes for TRIUMF's Rare Isotope Beam (RIB) program. A possible extension of the beam-line will allow recirculation of the beam for an Energy Recovery Linac (ERL) to operate in tandem with the RIB user program. A superconducting cavity with RF dipole geometry is being considered for separation of the ERL and RIB beams at the end of the linac to provide simultaneous beams to both the ERL and RIB programs. This contribution describes optimization studies performed on the RF dipole design to determine if this geometry will meet the requirements of the ARIEL e-linac. The resulting 650 MHz structure has compact cavity dimensions, low peak fields, and high transverse shunt impedance. Due to the large aperture beam-line and stringent requirement on preserving beam quality, extensive focus has been placed on transverse uniformity of the deflecting fields.

 


 



THPBA03
Design, Fabrication, Measurement, Installation and Alignment of  2 Types of Quadrupole-sextupole Combined Magnets for the Upgrade of the 1.2 GeV Booster Synchrotron at Tohoku University
1229


 

W. Beeckman, S. Antoine, P. Bocher, F. Forest, P. Jehanno, P. Jivkov, M.J. Leray, S. Taillardat
                       Sigmaphi, Vannes, France
H. Hama, F. Hinode
                       Tohoku University, Research Center for Electron Photon Science, Sendai, Japan
L. Swinnen
                       Sigmaphi Japan, Tokyo, Japan

 


 

The upgrade of the 1.2 GeV booster synchrotron is part of the recovery program from the March 11 2011, Great East Japan Earthquake. The replacement of standard quadrupoles by combined quadrupole-sextupole magnets will tame the head-tail instability by changing the chromaticity from the natural, negative, values to positive values, which will prevent the highly unstable m=0 mode to develop. In January 2012, Sigmaphi was awarded a contract for the design of 2 kinds of combined magnets and the fabrication of 8 magnets of each type, including rotating coil and Hall probe measurements of every unit. The contract also required disassembly of the old quadrupoles and installation of the new combined magnets, including disassembly/reassembly of the vacuum chambers and fitting with new UHV gaskets. Finally, all the booster magnets, namely 8 dipoles, 4 achromat quadrupoles and the 16 new combined function magnets were to be realigned within ±0.2 mm accuracy by mid- January 2013. The presentation outlines the main steps of the different operations and presents the achievements and results.

 


 



THPBA04
Design and Construction of the Proto-type Quadrupole Magnets for the SuperKEKB Interaction Region
1232


 

N. Ohuchi, Y. Arimoto, H. Koiso, A. Morita, Y. Ohnishi, K. Oide, H. Sugimoto, M. Tawada, K. Tsuchiya, H. Yamaoka, Z.G. Zong
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

In the SuperKEKB interaction region, IR, eight superconducting quadrupoles were designed as quadrupole-doublets for focusing beams. The superconducting quadrupoles, QC1P and QC1E, were designed to be placed at the closest positions on each beam line, positron and electron, respectively. QC1P has the smallest radius of 25 mm, and it is iron free magnet without iron yokes in order to make an optimized magnetic field profile along the beam line for the beam optics. The radius of QC1E is 33 mm and the magnet has iron yokes. The field gradients of QC1P and QC1E are designed as 76.4 T/m at 1800A and 91.6 T/m at 2000A, respectively. Two prototypes of QC1P and QC1E were constructed in KEK and the cold tests were performed. Two proto-types were excited over the design current without any quench. In this paper, we will report the detail designs of the magnets and field measurement results.

 


 



THPBA05
Multipole Magnetic Measurements Using a Lock-in Amplifier Technique
1235


 

C.L. Doose, M. Kasa
                       ANL, Argonne, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Science, under Contract No. DE-AC02-06CH11357
Magnetic measurement systems for accelerator magnets typically use relatively complicated rigid rotating coils and digital integrators to capture the integrated coil signal as a function of angular position of the coil. This technique has proven to be reliable and accurate for measuring the field quality of conventional multipole magnets; however, the design and construction of the rotating coils ultimately determine the accuracy of the measurement system. A different concept and implementation of a simple stretched-wire rotating coil will be described. This system utilizes a single-turn radial coil continuously rotating at a fixed angular velocity. The coil signal and a reference pulse are sampled with a 24-bit ADC. A lock-in technique or an FFT can be used to determine the harmonic content of the signal and thus calculate the main field strength and angle, multipole coefficients, and magnetic center offsets. The main advantages of such a system are ease of coil manufacturing and simple mechanical system design.

 


 



THPBA06
Magnetic Measurements of the First Superconducting Undulator at the Advanced Photon Source
1238


 

C.L. Doose, M. Kasa
                       ANL, Argonne, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Science, under Contract No. DE-AC02-06CH11357
A superconducting (SC) undulator prototype designated SCU0 was installed in the APS storage ring in December, 2012, and is providing users with photons in the energy range of 80-100 keV. This device was assembled and tested during the majority of 2012. Detailed tests were performed related to cryogenics, vacuum, mechanical motion due to thermal contraction, and magnetic performance. Magnetic measurements have been performed using a horizontal measurement system, which utilizes Hall probes and an integral coil. The measurement system was configured without interfering with the cryogenic or vacuum systems of the SCU0 cryomodule. Some of the magnetic measurement results will be presented for local and integrated field measurements, integrated field uniformity, and integrated fields during a quench. The measured rms phase errors were typically less than two degrees. The measured change in the integrated field during an intentional quench was less than 35 G-cm. The magnetic performance of SCU0 has proven to be within design tolerance for field quality and quench characteristics. Beam-based integral measurements agree well with the magnetic measurements.

 


 



THPBA07
Superconducting Corrector IR Magnet Production for SuperKEKB
1241


 

B. Parker, M. Anerella, J. Escallier, A.K. Ghosh, H.M. Hocker, A.K. Jain, A. Marone, P. Wanderer
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA
Y. Arimoto, M. Iwasaki, N. Ohuchi, M. Tawada, K. Tsuchiya, H. Yamaoka, Z.G. Zong
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

The SuperKEKB luminosity upgrade IR needs 43 different superconducting correction coils. There are dipole (b1), skew-dipole and skew-quad correctors, (a1, a2), for orbit and optics control and b3 and b4 correctors for acceptable circulating beam lifetime. Most coils are sandwiched inside the main IR quad apertures but a few are located on independent support tubes outside the quad collars or on interconnects between quads. Four complex external field cancel coils, b3-b6, are needed to buck non-linear fields outside the quads closest to the interaction point. In the IR crossing angle geometry the first quads have no magnetic yokes and the cancel coils’ end turn spacings must match the field falloff with increasing beam separation. SuperKEKB IR correctors have tight harmonic tolerances with allowed field deviation at the reference radius of a few gauss at each position along the coil. Also the cancel coils have a position dependent “twist” to generate the correct local amount of skew field for the SuperKEKB optics.

 


 



THPBA08
Partial Return Yoke for MICE - Engineering Design
1244


 

H. Witte, S.R. Plate
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA
A.D. Bross
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA
J.S. Tarrant
                       STFC/RAL, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Brookhaven Science Associates, LC under Contract No. DE-AC02-98CH10886 with the U.S. Department of Energy.
MICE, which is an acronym for Muon Ionization Cooling Experiment, is a technology demonstration which is presently assembled at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory in Didcot, UK. MICE aims to demonstrate ionization cooling experimentally, which is an essential technology for potential future accelerators such as a muon collider. The MICE channel consists of up to 18 large bore superconducting solenoids, which produce a substantial stray field. This stray field can jeopardize the operation of electrical and electronic equipment in the MICE hall. The concept of a partial flux return yoke has been developed, which reduces the stray field in the MICE hall to a safe level. This paper discusses the engineering design of the partial return yoke.

 


 



THPBA09
Partial Return Yoke for MICE - General Concept and Performance
1247


 

H. Witte, S.R. Plate
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA
A.D. Bross
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA
J.S. Tarrant
                       STFC/RAL, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Brookhaven Science Associates, LC under Contract No. DE-AC02-98CH10886 with the U.S. Department of Energy.
MICE, which is an acronym for Muon Ionization Cooling Experiment, is a technology demonstration which is presently assembled at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory in Didcot, UK. MICE aims to demonstrate ionization cooling experimentally, which is an essential technology for potential future accelerators such as a muon collider. The MICE channel consists of up to 18 large bore superconducting solenoids, which produce a substantial stray field. This stray field can jeopardize the operation of electrical and electronic equipment in the MICE hall. The concept of a partial flux return yoke has been developed, which reduces the stray field in the MICE hall to a safe level. This paper discusses the general concept and expected performance.

 


 



THPBA11
A Stripline Kicker Driver for the Next Generation Light Source
1250


 

N. Butler, M.P.J. Gaudreau, M.K. Kempkes, J. Kinross-Wright, F.M. Niell
                       Diversified Technologies, Inc., Bedford, Massachusetts, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the US Department of Energy under grant DE-SC00004255
Diversified Technologies, Inc. (DTI) is developing a driver for a kicker strip-line deflector which inserts and extracts charge bunches to and from the electron and positron damping rings of the ILC. The ILC damping ring kicker driver must drive a 50 Ω load at 10kV with 2 ns flat-topped pulses, which is to burst pulses at a 3 MHz rate within 1 ms bursts occurring at a 5 Hz rate. The driver must also absorb high-order mode signals emerging from the deflector. Key components include: HV MOSFET switch array capable of delivering 25 ns, 400 A, 1kV pulses at 3 MHz in 1 ms bursts, at a burst rate of 5 Hz; this switch array having a withstand capability of 4kV+; DSRD diode stack capable of withstanding 5kV upon opening (but later 10kV), able to open within 500 ps and interrupt 400 A reverse current; a 1 ns 50 Ω delay line, together with an input circuit that presents a near-short to the line for frequencies greater than 10 MHz. DTI has demonstrated a solid state kicker driver meeting ILC requirements, extendable to a wide range of kicker driver applications. The MOSFET array switch, without the DSRDs, is itself suitable for many accelerator systems with >10 ns kicker requirements.

 


 



THPBA12
Progress on the MSU Superferric Cyclotron Gas Stopper Magnet Quench Protection and Cooling System
1253


 

M.A. Green, G. Bollen, S. Chouhan, A. Zeller
                       FRIB, East Lansing, USA
J. DeKamp, D. Lawton, C. Magsig, D.J. Morrissey, J. Ottarson, S. Schwarz
                       NSCL, East Lansing, Michigan, USA

 


 

Funding: The material in this paper is based on work supported in part by a grant from the National Science Foundation. The MSU grant number is PHY-0958726.
The MSU gas cyclotron stopper system is designed to decelerate rare isotope ions from energies from a few MeV to energies in the 10 keV range. The ions are decelerated in low pressure helium gas in vertical cyclotron magnet. The magnet and the system for decelerating the ions is mounted on a high voltage platform. The cyclotron gas stopper magnet is a warm iron superconducting cyclotron sector dipole. The maximum field in the gap (0.18m) is 2.75 T. The outer diameter of magnet yoke is 3.8m, with a pole radius of 1.1 m and Br = 1.8 T m. The desired field shape is obtained by the pole profile. Each coil of the two halves is in a separate cryostat and connected in series through a warm electrical connection. The entire system is mounted on a high voltage platform, and will be cooled by six two-stage 4.2 K pulse tube coolers. The magnet coils and their cryostats have been fabricated. The iron poles have been machined and assembled. This paper presents the progress on the magnet system fabrication and assembly

 


 



THPBA13
Mechanical Design of the Cryogenic Sub-Systems for ReA6 Quarter Wave Resonator Cryomodule
1256


 

M. Shuptar, F. Casagrande, A.D. Fox, M.J. Johnson, M. Leitner, S.J. Miller, T. Nellis, M.S. Patil, T. Xu, Y. Xu
                       FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by US DOE Cooperative Agreement DE-SC000061
The driver linac for the Facility for Rare Isotope Beams (FRIB) consists of 49 cryomodules operated at 2 K utilizing 4 different types of superconducting resonators and 2 solenoid lengths which in turn requires 7 individual cryomodule configurations. The mechanical design requirements of the internal cryogenics of an FRIB cryomodule are determined by the piping and instrumentation diagram, which is discussed in the paper based on the FRIB quarter wave cryomodule type. In addition, heat load requirements and spatial constraints of other cryomodule sub-systems influence the cryomodule cryogenics design. The paper describes detailed design choices for the cryogenic headers and piping, a 2 K heat exchanger inside the cryomodule, solenoid current leads, and the bayonet connections to the cryogenic distribution system inside the accelerator tunnel. Different operating modes, which influence the cryogenic design, are summarized.

 


 



THPBA14
Impact of Radiation on the Mu2e Production Solenoid Performance
1259


 

V.V. Kashikhin, N. Dhanaraj, M.J. Lamm, N.V. Mokhov, V.S. Pronskikh
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: This work was supported in part by Fermi Research Alliance under the U.S. Department of Energy Contract DE-AC02-07CH11359.
The Muon-to-Electron conversion experiment (Mu2e), under development at Fermilab, seeks to detect direct muon to electron conversion to provide evidence for processes violating muon and electron lepton number conservation that cannot be explained by the Standard Model of particle physics. The Mu2e magnet system consists of three large superconducting solenoids. The first in the chain of magnets is the Production Solenoid that collects and focuses pions, generated in interactions of 8-GeV proton beam with the tungsten target, and muons from pion decays by supplying a peak axial field of 4.6T and an axial field gradient of ~1T/m within 1.5m warm bore. The superconducting coils are protected from the secondary particle radiation by 50-cm thick heat and radiation shield made of bronze, which was optimized for the energy absorption and cost. Despite this optimization, a significant fraction of the particle radiation reaches the superconducting coils, creating the heat dissipation and changes in the material properties that in turn affect the magnet thermal and electrical performance. This paper describes the impact of radiation on the magnet cooling, stability and quench protection.

 


 



THPBA15
A Highly Configurable and Scriptable Software System for Fully Automated Tuning of Accelerator Cavities
1262


 

J.M. Nogiec, R.H. Carcagno, S. Kotelnikov, A. Makulski, R. Nehring, D.F. Orris, W. Schappert
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

A software system has been developed to automate cavity tuning machines as part of a multi-laboratory collaboration. The system is based on a plugin framework containing a configurable set of components. Each component runs asynchronously and uses a framework for message based communication. Components run in either manual or automatic mode. In automatic mode, the system interprets a user-selected control script which executes a sequence of measurements, model calculations and tuning operations. A tuning script iterates until the prescribed tuning criteria are satisfied, or until aborted or paused by the user. In manual mode, the user controls the tuning process, deciding when and which component to run, and when tuning is complete. The software framework incorporates the blackboard architecture for sharing data and results between the various plugins. The results of the measurements and tuning are persisted in an XML-based data store, and components exist that retrieve and visualize the data. The software system is portable (Linux, Windows) and has been successfully deployed and used by Fermilab, DESY, and KEK.

 


 



THPBA16
A New Facility for Testing Superconducting Solenoid Magnets with Large Fringe Fields at Fermilab
1265


 

D.F. Orris, R.H. Carcagno, J.M. Nogiec, R. Rabehl, C. Sylvester, M.A. Tartaglia
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: Operated by Fermi Research Alliance, LLC under Contract No. De-AC02-07CH11359 with the United States Department of Energy.
Testing superconducting solenoid magnets with no iron flux return can be problematic for a magnet test facility due to the large magnetic fringe fields generated. These large external fields can interfere with the operation of equipment while precautions must be taken for personnel supporting the test. The magnetic forces between the solenoid under test and the external infrastructure must also be taken under consideration. A new test facility has been designed and built at Fermilab specifically for testing superconducting magnets with large external fringe fields. This paper discusses the test stand design, capabilities, and details of the instrumentation and controls with data from the first solenoid tested in this facility: the Muon Ionization Cooling Experiment (MICE) coupling coil.

 


 



THPBA17
Status Of PXIE 200 Ω MEBT Kicker Development
1268


 

G.W. Saewert, M.H. Awida, B. Chase, H. Pfeffer, D. Wolff
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA
D. Frolov
                       Kuban State University, Krasnodar, Russia

 


 

Funding: Fermi Research Alliance, LLC, under Contract No. DE-AC02-07CH11359 with the U. S. Department of Energy
The proposed Project X machine at Fermilab must deliver a widely varying bunch pattern to provide beam to several experiments quasi-simultaneously. Beam will be chopped on a bunch-by-bunch basis. The Project X Injector Experiment (PXIE) will be the test bed to demonstrate the beam chopping ability to form an arbitrary bunch pattern. The chopper system will selectively kick out individual beam bunches in the 2.1 MeV Medium Energy Beam Transport (MEBT) section downstream of the RFQ producing a CW 162.5 MHz H− bunch stream. The chopper system will consist of two individual traveling wave kickers working in sync to deflect undesired beam bunches to an absorber. Presently two kicker system versions are under development. One proposed version is a 50 Ω planar structure driven by a ±250 V linear amplifier. The second proposed version is a 200 Ω helical, microstrip line structure driven by a 500 V bipolar switch. This paper describes the development status of the 200 Ω version and includes the design concept, comparison of 3D modeling work with prototype measurements, 200 Ω hardware description and progress with the driver.

 


 



THPBA19
Storage Ring and Interaction Region Magnets for a μ+μ- Higgs Factory
1271


 

A.V. Zlobin, Y.I. Alexahin, V.V. Kapin, V.V. Kashikhin, N.V. Mokhov, S.I. Striganov, I.S. Tropin
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Fermi Research Alliance, LLC, under contract No. DE-AC02-07CH11359 with the U.S. Department of Energy and Muon Accelerator Program (MAP)
A low-energy Muon Collider (MC) offers unique opportunities to study the recently found Higgs boson. However, due to a relatively large beam emittance with moderate cooling in this machine, large-aperture high-field superconducting (SC) magnets are required. The magnets need also an adequate margin to operate at a large radiation load from the muon decay showers. General specifications of the SC dipoles and quadrupoles for the 125 GeV c.o.m. Higgs Factory with an average luminosity of ~2·1031 cm-2s−1 are formulated. Magnet conceptual designs and parameters are reported. The impact of the magnet fringe fields on the beam dynamics as well as the IR and lattice magnet protection from radiation are also reported and discussed.

 


 



THPBA22
Helical Muon Beam Cooling Channel Engineering Design
1274


 

G. Flanagan, R.P. Johnson, S.A. Kahn, M.L. Neubauer
                       Muons, Inc, Illinois, USA
N. Andreev, R. Bossert, S. Krave, M.L. Lopes, J.C. Tompkins, K. Yonehara
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA
F. Marhauser
                       MuPlus, Inc., Newport News, USA

 


 

Funding: DOE STTR Grant DE-SC0006266
The Helical Cooling Channel (HCC), a novel technique for six-dimensional (6D) ionization cooling of muon beams, has shown considerable promise based on analytic and simulation studies. However, the implementation of this revolutionary method of muon cooling requires new techniques for the integration of hydrogen-pressurized, high-power RF cavities into the low-temperature superconducting magnets of the HCC. We discuss progress and plans toward the critical path technology demonstrations of dielectric loaded 805 MHz RF cavities and 10 T Nb3Sn based Helical Solenoid magnet. Additionally we discuss integration challenges.

 


 



THPBA23
Disposition of Weapons-Grade Plutonium with GEM*STAR
1277


 

R.P. Johnson, G. Flanagan, F. Marhauser
                       Muons, Inc, Illinois, USA
C. Bowman, R.B. Vogelaar
                       ADNA, Los Alamos, New Mexico, USA

 


 

The 75,000 tons of US stored spent nuclear fuel (SNF) from conventional nuclear reactors is a resource that could provide 125 years of all US electrical power. Or it could also provide a great amount of process heat for many applications like producing green diesel fuel from natural gas and renewable carbon. An accelerator system like the SNS at ORNL can provide neutrons to convert SNF into fissile isotopes to provide high temperature heat using technology developed at the ORNL Molten Salt Reactor Experiment. In the GEM*STAR [1] accelerator-driven subcritical reactor that we wish to build, the accelerator allows subcritical operation (no Chernobyls), the molten salt fuel allows volatiles to be continuously removed (no Fukushimas), and the SNF does not need to be enriched or reprocessed (to minimize weapons proliferation concerns). The same GEM*STAR accelerator-driven reactor we plan to use for SNF burning can also be used to burn weapons-grade Plutonium to extract energy and make remnants permanently unusable for weapons.
[1] Charles D. Bowman, R. Bruce Vogelaar, et al., “GEM*STAR: The Alternative Reactor Technology Comprising Graphite, Molten Salt, and Accelerators,” Handbook of Nuclear Engineering, Springer (2010).

 


 



THPBA24
A Dipole Magnet for the FRIB High Radiation Environment Nuclear Fragment Separator
1280


 

S.A. Kahn, A. Dudas, G. Flanagan, J.H. Nipper
                       Muons, Inc, Illinois, USA
M. Anerella, R.C. Gupta, J. Schmalzle
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

Funding: U.S. DOE grants DE-SC-0006273 and DE-AC02-98CH10886
Magnets in the fragment separator region of the Facility for Rare Isotope Beams (FRIB) would be subjected to extremely high radiation and heat loads. Critical elements of FRIB are the dipole magnets which select the desired isotopes. Since conventional NiTi and Nb3Sn superconductors must operate at ~4.5 K, the removal of the high heat load generated in these magnets with these superconductors would be difficult. The coils for these magnets must accommodate the large curvature from the 30° bend that the magnets subtend. High temperature superconductors (HTS) have been shown to be radiation resistant and can operate in the 40 K temperature range where heat removal is an order of magnitude more efficient than at 4.5 K. This paper will describe the magnetic and preliminary engineering design of these magnets.

 


 



THPBA25
Radiation Tolerant Multipole Correction Coils for FRIB Quadrupoles
1283


 

S.A. Kahn
                       Muons, Inc, Illinois, USA
R.C. Gupta
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

Multipole correction insert coils with significant field strength are required inside the large aperture superconducting quadrupole magnets in the fragment separator section of the Facility for Rare Isotope Beams (FRIB). Correction coils made with copper do not create the required field and conventional low temperature superconductors are not practical in the fragment separator magnets which will operate at 40 K. The correction coils should be made of HTS as the main quadrupole coils are. There is a significant advantage to using HTS in these coils as it can withstand the high radiation and heat load that will be present. This paper will describe an innovative design suitable for coils with the complex end geometry of cylindrical coils. We will look at the forces on the corrector coils from the main quadrupole fields and anticipate possible coil distortions.

 


 



THPBA26
Elliptical Muon Helical Cooling Channel Coils
1286


 

S.A. Kahn, G. Flanagan
                       Muons, Inc, Illinois, USA
M.L. Lopes, K. Yonehara
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: U.S. DOE Grant Number DE-SC0006266
A helical cooling channel (HCC) consisting of a pressurized gas absorber imbedded in a magnetic channel that provides solenoid, helical dipole and helical quadrupole fields has shown considerable promise in providing six-dimensional phase space reduction for muon beams. The most effective approach to implementing the desired magnetic field is a helical solenoid (HS) channel composed of short solenoid coils arranged in a helical pattern. The HS channel along with an external solenoid allows the Bz and Bphi components along the reference orbit to be set to any desired values. To set dBphi/dr to the desired value for optimum focusing requires an additional variable. We shall show that using elliptical shaped coils in the HS channel allows the flexibility to achieve the desired dBphi/dr on orbit without significant change to Bz and Bphi.

 


 



THPBA27
Simulation Workstation
1289


 

T.J. Roberts
                       Muons, Inc, Illinois, USA

 


 

The Simulation Workstation is a software toolkit that provides a universal Graphical User Interface to most particle simulation codes. This includes: constructing and displaying the simulated system graphically, running multiple simulation codes from a single system description, displaying particle tracks or histories with the objects of the system, flexibly generating plots and histograms, and comparing the results from multiple simulations. The workstation itself knows very little about particle simulations – that knowledge is contained in the simulation codes themselves. As a consequence, the workstation can handle essentially any problem that any of the supported simulation codes can simulate. These include: beam optics calculations, ion source design,muon cooling channels, spacecraft radiation levels, nuclear reactors, complex shielding calculations, and accelerator driven subcritical reactors. The workstation offers interfaces to most CAD/CAE programs, enabling workflows that include multiphysics analysis by other programs. Initially the Simulation Workstation will support these simulation codes: G4beamline, MCNP6, and MAD-X; additional codes can be added by users.

 


 



THPBA28
Status of Spallation Neutron Source Cryogenic Test Facility (CTF)
1292


 

M.P. Howell, A. Coleman, S.-H. Kim, W.H. Strong
                       ORNL, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA
B. DeGraff, T.S. Neustadt, J.A. Proulx, J. Saunders, D.M. Vandygriff
                       ORNL RAD, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA
T. Xu
                       FRIB, East Lansing, USA

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by SNS through UT-Battelle, LLC, under Contract No. DEAC05-00OR22725 for the U.S. Department of Energy.
The Spallation Neutron Source (SNS) is building Superconducting Radio Frequency (SRF) processing and testing facilities to support the reliability and sustainability goals of the enterprise. Some of the testing facilities require cryogenic helium at both 4K and 2K. Currently, 4K helium is supplied to the test cave from the Central Helium Liquefier (CHL) that also services the linear accelerator. As more facilities become available and testing is more frequent, it is essential to separate testing in this facility from the operation of the accelerator. This paper describes the cryogenic system under development at SNS to supply SRF testing needs. The initial phase of the project was to supply 4K helium to a Vertical Test Area (VTA) and the test cave which is capable of housing either the Horizontal Test Apparatus (HTA) or a cryomodule. It was desired to make the system as flexible as possible to meet the needs at SNS. The scope of the initial phase of this project has been expanded. First, the system will be outfitted with warm pumping capability to produce 2K helium in the testing systems. Second, a liquid fill station will be incorporated to fill portable helium Dewars.

 


 



THPBA29
Recent Improvements in Particle Simulation Support in Analyst-MP
1295


 

J.F. DeFord, B.L. Held, A.A. Nichols
                       STAAR/AWR Corporation, Mequon, USA

 


 

Funding: Portions of this work were funded by the Department of Energy SBIR Program under contract SC0002604.
A new volumetric particle source has been developed for Analyst-MP for use in multipacting computations. The source is based upon the stochastic initiation of particles on the finite-element mesh together with an adaptive algorithm for determining when to stop the process within a particular element when the solution converges. Support for field-emission using the Fowler-Nordheim model has also been developed in support of dark current computations. Examples of the use of these emission models in RF cavity simulation will be presented. The user interface has been updated with several features that aid in model development/simulation. All user actions are now recorded in the form of a Python script that can be executed to reproduce the actions, or to act as a starting point for a user script. Variables and expressions can now be used in all numeric fields, and numeric values all have units that can be specified directly or are inferred from an expression. Other changes include support for undo/redo, improved model data presentation, and updated result visualization. A summary of user interface changes and their impact on RF structure design simulation will be presented.

 


 




