













PAC2013 - Table of Session: TUODB (Contributed Oral Presentations, Hadron Colliders)


TUODB —  Contributed Oral Presentations, Hadron Colliders   (01-Oct-13   15:30—16:30)
Chair: L. Rybarcyk, LANL, Los Alamos, New Mexico, USA


Paper
Title
Page



TUODB1
Studies of the Low Energy Proton Beam Halo Experiment
436


 

H. Jiang, P. Chen, S. Fu, T. Huang, F. Li, P. Li, H.C. Liu, C. Meng, M. Meng, Z.C. Mu, H.F. Ouyang, J. Peng, L.Y. Rong, B. Sun, J.M. Tian, B. Wang, S.C. Wang, W.Q. Xin, T.G. Xu, L. Zeng, F.X. Zhao
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

Space charge forces acting in a mismatched beam have been commonly identified as a major cause of beam halo. The knowledge of the details of the initial 6D phase-space distribution is very important for simulation. We have charactered the beam transversal 4D distribution in the experiment and then used this initial beam parameters to simulate the beam dynamics.

 






Slides TUODB1 [2.579 MB]
            
 


 



TUODB2
Longitudinal Beam Dynamics and LLRF Requirements for the Project X Pulsed Linac
439


 

A. Vivoli, G.I. Cancelo, B. Chase, N. Solyak, P. Varghese
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Project X is a high intensity proton facility being developed to support the intensity frontier physics program over the next two decades at Fermilab. The Reference Design is based on a continuous wave (CW) superconducting 3 GeV linac providing up to 1 and 3 MW of beam power at 1 and 3 GeV respectively, while a superconducting pulsed linac provides acceleration of roughly 4.3% of the beam delivered from the CW linac to the 8 GeV injection energy of the existing Recycler/Main Injector complex. In this paper we present the results of simulation of longitudinal beam dynamics and Low Level RF (LLRF) control system in the pulsed linac, operated for long pulses in presence of errors and cavity detuning for different RF configurations and settings, and set the requirements for the LLRF necessary to fulfill the specifications of the design.

 






Slides TUODB2 [8.618 MB]
            
 


 



TUODB3
Multi-Turn Injection of 50 MeV Protons Into the CERN Proton Synchrotron Booster
442


 

V. Raginel, E. Benedetto, C. Carli, B. Mikulec
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Since 1978, Linac2 produces beams of 50 MeV protons with a current around 160 mA, which are injected into the CERN Proton Synchrotron Booster (PSB) with conventional multi-turn injection using a horizontal septum. It is planned to replace Linac2 during a future long stop with a new H− linac, Linac4, injecting at higher energy (160 MeV) and making use of the modern charge-exchange injection principle. Due to the age of Linac2 and to a delicate vacuum situation the risk of a serious Linac2 breakdown has to be considered. Therefore it is necessary to study if the PSB could produce beams useful for the LHC and other experiments injecting a Linac4 proton beam at 50 MeV with much lower average current compared to Linac2 and without the need for a long installation of the 160 MeV H− injection hardware. Benchmarking of the PSB injection model with the existing injection system with Linac2 using the ORBIT code has been done for a LHC-type beam and then the injection model was used to estimate the brightness for LHC-type beams that could potentially be reached in one PSB ring with the injection of a Linac4 proton beam at 50 MeV.

 






Slides TUODB3 [2.862 MB]
            
 


 



TUODB4
nuSTORM: Neutrinos from Stored Muons
445


 

A.D. Bross
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Neutrino beams produced from the decay of muons in a racetrack-like decay ring provide a powerful way to study short-baseline neutrino oscillation and neutrino interaction physics. In this talk, I will describe the facility, nuSTORM, and show how the unique neutrino beam at the facility will enable experiments of unprecedented precision to be carried out. I will present sensitivity plots that indicated that this approach can provide well over 5 σ confirmation or rejection of the LSND/MinBooNE results and can be used to perform neutrino interaction measurements of unprecedented precision. The unique ν beam available at the nuSTORM facility has the potential to be transformational in our approach to ν interaction physics, offering a “ν light source” to physicists from a number of disciplines. Finally, the nuSTORM facility can also provide intense short-pulsed beams of low energy muons suitable for future 6D muon ionization cooling experiments. This can be simultaneously while carrying out the neutrino program.

 






Slides TUODB4 [6.876 MB]
            
 


 




