













PAC2013 - Table of Session: TUXA (Invited Oral Presentations, Colliders)


TUXA —  Invited Oral Presentations, Colliders   (01-Oct-13   09:00—10:00)
Chair: S.D. Holmes, Fermilab, Batavia, USA


Paper
Title
Page



TUXA1
Burn-off Dominated Uranium and Asymmetric Copper-gold Operation in RHIC
369


 

Y. Luo, M. Blaskiewicz, J.M. Brennan, W. Fischer, N.A. Kling, K. Mernick, T. Roser
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Brookhaven Science Associates, LLC under Contract No. DE-AC02-98CH10886 with the U.S. Department of Energy.
In the 2012 RHIC heavy ion run, we collided uranium-uranium (U-U) ions at 96.4~GeV/nucleon and copper-gold (Cu-Au) ions at 100~GeV/nucleon for the first time in RHIC. The new Electron-Beam Ion Source (EBIS) was used for the first time to provide ions for the RHIC physics program. After adding the horizontal cooling, 3-D stochastic cooling became operational in RHIC for the first time, which greatly enhanced the luminosity. In this article, we first review the improvements and performances in the 2012 RHIC ion runs. Then we discuss the conditions and approaches to achieve the burn-off dominated Uranium beam lifetime at physics stores. And we discuss the asymmetric copper-gold collision due to different IBS and stochastic cooling rates, and the operational solutions to maximize the integrated luminosity.

 






Slides TUXA1 [21.361 MB]
            
 


 



TUXA2
Nanometer Beam Generation and Measurements in KEK-ATF2
 


 

G.R. White
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Techiques for generation and measurements of ultra small beams in the few nanmeter range for applications in the final focus of high energy linear colliders are being developped and tested in the KEK ATF2. After reviewing the presently achieved performances and their possible progress in the future, the presentation should outline the basic limitations and realistic figures for application in future facilities.

 






Slides TUXA2 [9.837 MB]
            
 


 




