













PAC2013 - Table of Session: TUODA (Contributed Oral Presentations, Accelerator Systems)


TUODA —  Contributed Oral Presentations, Accelerator Systems   (01-Oct-13   15:30—16:00)
Chair: T. Satogata, JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA


Paper
Title
Page



TUODA1
High Pressure Gas-Filled RF Cavities for Use in a Muon Cooling Channel
419


 

B.T. Freemire, P.M. Hanlet, Y. Torun
                       IIT, Chicago, Illinois, USA
M. Chung, M.R. Jana, M.A. Leonova, A. Moretti, T.A. Schwarz, A.V. Tollestrup, Y. Torun, K. Yonehara
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA
M.G. Collura
                       Politecnico di Torino, Torino, Italy
R.P. Johnson
                       Muons, Inc, Illinois, USA

 


 

A high pressure hydrogen gas-filled RF (HPRF) cavity can operate in the multi-Tesla magnetic fields required for a muon accelerator cooling channel. A beam test was performed at the Fermilab MuCool Test Area by sending a 400 MeV proton beam through an 805 MHz cavity and quantifying the effects of the resulting plasma within the cavity. The resulting energy loss per electron-ion pair produced has been measured at 10-18 to 10-16 J every RF cycle. Doping the hydrogen gas with oxygen greatly decreases the lifetime of an electron, thereby improving the performance of the HPRF cavity. Electron lifetimes as short as 1 ns have been measured. The recombination rate of positive and negative ions in the cavity has been measured on the order of 10-8 cm3/s. Extrapolation in both gas pressure and beam intensity are required to obtain Muon Collider parameters, however the results indicate HPRF cavities can be used in a muon accelerator cooling channel.

 






Slides TUODA1 [12.191 MB]
            
 


 



TUODA2
Test of Optical Stochastic Cooling in the IOTA Ring
422


 

V.A. Lebedev, Y. Tokpanov
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA
M.S. Zolotorev
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Fermi Research Alliance, LLC, under Contract No. DE-AC02-07CH11359 with the United States Dep. of Energy
A new 150 MeV electron storage ring is being built at Fermilab. The construction of a new machine pursues two goals a test of highly non-linear integrable optics and a test of optical stochastic cooling (OSC). This paper discusses details of OSC arrangements, choice of major parameters of the cooling scheme and experimental tests of the optical amplifier prototype. The amplifier uses highly doped Ti-sapphire crystal as amplification medium. The major goal of experiments is to measure the amplifier dispersion which determines lengthening of single particle signal and the effective bandwidth of the system.

 






Slides TUODA2 [0.545 MB]
            
 


 




