













PAC2013 - Table of Session: WEZAA (Invited Oral Presentations, Accelerator Technology)


WEZAA —  Invited Oral Presentations, Accelerator Technology   (02-Oct-13   14:00—15:30)
Chair: H.-D. Nuhn, SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA


Paper
Title
Page



WEZAA1
Advanced Instrumentation Systems for FEL's
 


 

P.E. Evtushenko
                       JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA

 


 

This presentation will cover advanced instrumentation systems for FEL's and ERL's.

 






Slides WEZAA1 [5.458 MB]
            
 


 



WEZAA2
Overview and Lessons Learned of the Jefferson Lab Cryomodule Production for the CEBAF 12 GeV Upgrade
749


 

J. Hogan, M.A. Drury, L. Harwood, C. Hovater, M. Wiseman
                       JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA
A. Burrill
                       HZB, Berlin, Germany
C.E. Reece
                       JLab, Newport News, Virginia, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Jefferson Science Associates, LLC under U.S. DOE Contract No. DE-AC05-06OR23177.
The Continuous Electron Beam Accelerator Facility (CEBAF) at Jefferson Lab is nearing completion of an energy upgrade from 6 to 12 GeV. An integral part of the upgrade is the addition of ten new cryomodules, each consisting of eight seven-cell superconducting radio-frequency (SRF) cavities. An average performance of 100+MV of acceleration per cryomodule is needed to achieve the 12 GeV beam energy goal. The production methodology was for industry to provide and deliver the major components to Jefferson Lab, where they were tested and assembled into cryomodules. The production process begins with an inspection upon receiving of all major components followed by individual performance qualification testing. The SRF cavities received their final chemical processing and cleaning at Jefferson Lab. The qualified components along with all associated hardware and instrumentation are assembled, tested, installed into CEBAF and run through an integrated system checkout in preparation for beam operations. The production process is complete and one of the first completed cryomodules has successfully produced 108 MV of acceleration with a linac beam current of 465 uA.
The U.S. Government retains a non-exclusive, paid-up, irrevocable, world-wide license to publish or reproduce this manuscript for U.S. Government purposes.

 






Slides WEZAA2 [8.504 MB]
            
 


 



WEZAA3
Advances in SRF Materials Science aimed at High Q Cavities
 


 

A. Grassellino
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Several SRF accelerators worldwide target continuous wave operation at medium accelerating gradients. Examples include light sources, ERLs, Project X, accelerator driven systems and more. For these machines cryogenic losses dominate and therefore the quality factors of the SRF niobium cavities has a large impact on capital and operating costs. In this talk we will present the state of the art R&D in surface processing for maximization of quality factors in SRF niobium cavities, with consideration regarding different operating frequencies and temperature.

 






Slides WEZAA3 [9.636 MB]
            
 


 




