













PAC2013 - Table of Session: THOAB (Contributed Oral Presentations, Medical Accelerators and Applications)


THOAB —  Contributed Oral Presentations, Medical Accelerators and Applications   (03-Oct-13   09:30—10:00)
Chair: A. Schempp, IAP, Frankfurt am Main, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



THOAB1
A Specialized High-Power (50 kW) Proton Beamline for BNCT
1116


 

M.P. Dehnel, T. Christensen, D.E. Potkins, T.M. Stewart
                       D-Pace, Nelson, British Columbia, Canada
S. Bucci, P. Creely, S. Domingo, G. James, H. Seki, S. Shibuya
                       AccSys, Pleasanton, California, USA

 


 

Funding: SR&ED Canadian Revenue Agency
D-Pace has developed a specialized high-power beamline for transporting a 20 mA 2.5 MeV CW proton beam for a BNCT (Boron Neutron Capture Therapy) application. The 2 m horizontal by 4 m vertical layout transports the space-charge dominated beam with less than 1% beam-spill using two sets of 10 T/m quadrupole doublets, DC xy steerer, 90 degree bending magnet, and AC x & y magnets for raster-scanned flat-topped round or square intensity distributions deposited over targets with 40 - 100 mm maximum dimensions. Diagnostics include New Parametric Current Transformers, graphite water-cooled electrically-isolated collimators with readbacks, and a low-power sapphire beam profile monitor for macro-pulsed beams (~100 micro-second wide pulses at low frequency). This paper describes the specialized: beam-optics, device designs, intensity distributions, and also the latest commissioning results.

 






Slides THOAB1 [3.075 MB]
            
 


 



THOAB2
Large Momentum Acceptance Superconducting NS-FFAG Gantry for Carbon Cancer Therapy
1119


 

D. Trbojevic, B. Parker
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA
M. Pullia
                       CNAO Foundation, Milan, Italy

 


 

Funding: Work performed under Contract Number DE-AC02-98CH10886 with the auspices of the US Department of Energy.∗
Carbon cancer radiation therapy has clear advantages with respect to the other radiation therapy treatments. Cost of the ion cancer therapy is dominated by the delivery systems. An new design of the superconducting Non-Scaling FFAG (NS-FFAG) carbon isocentric gantry is presented. The magnet size and weight is dramatically smaller with respect to other gantries in cancer therapy treatment. The weight of the transport elements of the carbon isocentric gantry is estimated to be 1.5 tons to be compared to the 130 tons weight of the top-notch Heidelberg facility gantry.

 






Slides THOAB2 [41.118 MB]
            
 


 




