













PAC2013 - Table of Session: WEODA (Contributed Oral Presentations, Accelerator Technology)


WEODA —  Contributed Oral Presentations, Accelerator Technology   (02-Oct-13   16:00—16:30)
Chair: P. Ferracin, CERN, Geneva, Switzerland


Paper
Title
Page



WEODA1
Design of the Superconducting Magnet System for the SuperKEKB Interaction Region
759


 

N. Ohuchi, N. Higashi, H. Koiso, A. Morita, Y. Ohnishi, K. Oide, H. Sugimoto, M. Tawada, K. Tsuchiya, H. Yamaoka, Z.G. Zong
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
M. Anerella, J. Escallier, A.K. Jain, A. Marone, B. Parker, P. Wanderer
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

SuperKEKB are now being constructed with a target luminosity of 8×1035 which is 40 times higher than KEKB. This luminosity can be achieved by the "Nano-Beam" scheme, in which both beams should be squeezed to about 50 nm at the beam interaction point, IP. The superconducting magnet system has been designed in order to attain high luminosity. The system consists of 8 superconducting quadrupoles, 4 superconducting solenoids and 43 superconducting correctors. The magnets are installed into two cryostats in the interaction region, IR. For each beam, the final focusing system consists of quadrupole-doublets with 8 superconducting quadrupoles. To reduce the beam emittance at the IP, the superconducting solenoids cancel the integral solenoid field of the particle detector, Belle II, on the beam lines. The corrector system is very complicated and the multi-layered coils are mainly assembled inside of the quadrupole bores. In the paper, we would like to describe the most updated design of the superconducting magnet system for the SuperKEKB IR.

 






Slides WEODA1 [2.097 MB]
            
 


 



WEODA2
Rapid Cycling Dipole Magnet
762


 

H. Witte, M. Anerella, J.S. Berg, P. Kovach
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA
M.L. Lopes
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by Brookhaven Science Associates, LC under Contract No. DE-AC02-98CH10886 with the U.S. Department of Energy.
One option for acceleration Muons from 30 to 750 GeV is to use a rapid cycling synchrotrons with frequencies of 400-550 Hz. A lattice has been proposed which employs 8T, 4.2 m long superconducting dipole magnets which are interleaved with 1.8T, 7.5 m long normal conducting dipoles. The present design of the normal conducting dipoles for this lattice is based on grain oriented steel, which possesses good magnetic properties in the direction of the grains. Grain oriented steel however is highly anisotropic, which can potentially lead to field quality problems. In this paper we present an alternative design, which suggests lower losses, a higher peak field and better field quality.

 






Slides WEODA2 [0.716 MB]
            
 


 




