













PAC2013 - Table of Session: THYAA (Invited Oral Presentations, Alternative Acceleration Schemes)


THYAA —  Invited Oral Presentations, Alternative Acceleration Schemes   (03-Oct-13   10:30—11:30)
Chair: M.J. Hogan, SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA


Paper
Title
Page



THYAA1
BELLA Laser and Operations
1097


 

W. Leemans, J. Daniels, A. Deshmukh, A.J. Gonsalves, A. Magana, H.S. Mao, D.E. Mittelberger, K. Nakamura, J.R. Riley, D. L. Syversrud, C. Tóth, N. Ybarrolaza
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by the DOE, Office of High Energy Physics under contract DE-AC02-05CH11231.
The BELLA Project was formally launched and funded in 2009 by the Department of Energy, Office of High Energy physics to develop a new laser facility for forefront experiments on laser plasma acceleration at LBNL. The laser specifications were determined by relying on previous experiments that showed GeV electron beams and simulations. The BELLA laser can operate at peak power levels on the order of a Petawatt with a record setting repetition rate of 1 Hz for such a class of laser. Experiments have started in early 2013 and are aimed at studying the interaction of intense laser pulses in both gas jet and capillary discharge based plasma sources with as goal to obtain multi-GeV beams from structures that are less than a meter in length.

 


 



THYAA2
Latest Plasma Wakefield Acceleration Results from the FACET Project
1101


 

M.D. Litos, E. Adli, C.I. Clarke, S. Corde, J.-P. Delahaye, R.J. England, A.S. Fisher, J.T. Frederico, S.J. Gessner, M.J. Hogan, S.Z. Li, D.R. Walz, G.R. White, Z. Wu, V. Yakimenko
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA
E. Adli
                       University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway
W. An, C.E. Clayton, C. Joshi, W. Lu, K.A. Marsh, W.B. Mori, N. Vafaei-Najafabadi
                       UCLA, Los Angeles, California, USA
P. Muggli
                       MPI, Muenchen, Germany

 


 

SLAC’s new FACET facility had its second user run in April–June, 2013. Several new milestones were reached during this run, including the achievement of beam driven plasma wakefield acceleration of a discrete witness bunch for the first time, and energy doubling in a noble gas plasma source. The FACET beam is a 20 GeV electron bunch with a charge of 3.2 nC that can be compressed and focused to a size of 20 μm × 20 μm × 20 μm rms. To create the two-bunch, drive/witness beam structure, a chirped and over-compressed beam was dispersed horizontally in a chicane and a bite was taken from its middle with a tantalum finger collimator, corresponding to a longitudinal notching of the beam due to the head-tail energy correlation. A new 10 terawatt Ti:Sapphire laser was commissioned and used during this run to pre-ionize the plasma source in order to increase the efficiency of energy transfer from the beam to the wake. Ultimately, a witness beam of hundreds of pC in charge was accelerated by a drive beam of similar charge in a pre-formed lithium plasma with a density of 5×1016 cm&#8722;3, experiencing gradients reaching several GeV/m in magnitude.

 






Slides THYAA2 [22.217 MB]
            
 


 




