













PAC2013 - Table of Session: WEOBA (Contributed Oral Presentations, Accelerator Systems)


WEOBA —  Contributed Oral Presentations, Accelerator Systems   (02-Oct-13   11:30—12:00)
Chair: W.L. Waldron, LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA


Paper
Title
Page



WEOBA1
Initial X-band Photoinjector Performance at SLAC
 


 

C. Limborg-Deprey, C. Adolphsen, M.P. Dunning, C. Hast, R.K. Jobe, H. Li, T.J. Maxwell, D.J. McCormick, T.O. Raubenheimer, S.P. Weathersby
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy under contract DE-AC02-76SF00515
The X-Band Test Area (XTA) at SLAC is an all X-Band compact RF photoinjector that can produce short, high current electron bunches. Computations have shown that the peak bunch brightness should exceed that from S-Band RF photoinjectors by a factor of four. This improved performance principally comes from the high (200 MV/m) peak fields that can be sustained on the gun cathode. During the first three months of XTA commissioning, 20 pC electron bunches have been routinely generated with the gun cathode operating at greater than 200 MV/m while the dark current levels have been low. The electron bunches are accelerated to 70 MeV in a one-meter long, travelling-wave, X-band structure after the gun (a newer version of this structure should allow acceleration to more than 100 MeV). This paper reviews progress to date including measurements of the bunch properties and the bunch-to-bunch stability. The lengths of the 20 pC bunches have been measured with a transverse X-Band deflection cavity to be 250 fs rms, as expected from simulations. Transverse emittance in the range of 0.9 mm-mrad have been measured. A path to reach expected low transverse emittance numbers is described.

 






Slides WEOBA1 [2.840 MB]
            
 


 



WEOBA2
Ultra-Short Electron Bunch Generation by a Photocathode RF Gun
719


 

M. Mizugaki, Y. Koshiba, K. Sakaue, M. Washio
                       Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan
R. Kuroda
                       AIST, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan
T. Takatomi, J. Urakawa
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

We have been studying on the accelerator physics at Waseda University with BNL type 1.6cell rf gun. Such photocathode rf gun can generate low emittance and short bunch electron beam. Generating ultra-short electron bunch (shorter than 1ps) in a compact accelerator system would be meaningful because some applications need to be miniaturized, THz imaging, for example. However a short laser pulse cannot generate the bunch length of less than 1ps due to the space charge effects. So as to generate ultra-short electron bunch in compact system, we have newly designed Energy Chirping Cell attached rf gun (ECC rf gun). ECC is attached subsequently to the 1.6 cell. The role of ECC is to chirp the electron energy so that the electron bunch is compressed by velocity difference as it drifts. Simulation results show ECC rf gun can accelerate100pC electron bunch with the bunch length shorter than 100fs. We have successfully measured the coherent THz light by synchrotron radiation and transition radiation. Therefore, we inferred that the bunch was compressed into shorter than 1ps. In this conference, we will report the results of the bunch length measurement, present progresses and future plans.
JSPS Grant-in-Aid for Young Science (B) 23740203 and Scientific Research (A) 10001619

 






Slides WEOBA2 [7.527 MB]
            
 


 




