













PAC2013 - Table of Session: TUOCA (Contributed Oral Presentations, Colliders)


TUOCA —  Contributed Oral Presentations, Colliders   (01-Oct-13   15:00—15:30)
Chair: Y.H. Chin, KEK, Ibaraki, Japan


Paper
Title
Page



TUOCA1
Collimation with Hollow Electron Beams: A Proposed Design for the LHC Upgrade
413


 

G. Stancari, V. Previtali, A. Valishev
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA
R. Bruce, S. Redaelli, A. Rossi, B. Salvachua
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
V. Moens
                       EPFL, Lausanne, Switzerland

 


 

Funding: Fermi Research Alliance, LLC operates Fermilab under Contract DE-AC02-07CH11359 with the US Department of Energy. Research supported in part by US LARP and EU FP7 HiLumi LHC, Grant Agreement 284404.
Collimation with hollow electron beams is a technique for halo removal in high-power hadron beams. The concept was tested experimentally at the Fermilab Tevatron collider using a hollow electron gun installed in one of the Tevatron electron lenses. Within the US LHC Accelerator Research Program and the European HiLumi LHC Design Study, we are investigating the applicability of this technique to the Large Hadron Collider and a conceptual design is being developed. We review some of the main topics related to this study: motivation; halo removal processes; development of hollow electron guns; effects on the proton beam core; and integration in the LHC machine.

 






Slides TUOCA1 [4.294 MB]
            
 


 



TUOCA2
Commissioning RHIC's Electron Lens
416


 

X. Gu, Z. Altinbas, M. Anerella, D. Bruno, M.R. Costanzo, W.C. Dawson, K.A. Drees, W. Fischer, B. Frak, D.M. Gassner, K. Hamdi, J. Hock, L.T. Hoff, A.K. Jain, J.P. Jamilkowski, R.F. Lambiase, Y. Luo, M. Mapes, A. Marone, C. Mi, R.J. Michnoff, T.A. Miller, M.G. Minty, C. Montag, S. Nemesure, W. Ng, D. Phillips, A.I. Pikin, S.R. Plate, P.J. Rosas, P. Sampson, J. Sandberg, L. Snydstrup, Y. Tan, R. Than, C. Theisen, P. Thieberger, J.E. Tuozzolo, P. Wanderer, W. Zhang
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by U.S. DOE under contract No DE-AC02-98CH10886 with the U.S. Department of Energy.
In the 2013 RHIC polarized proton run, it was found that the RHIC bunch intensity has reached a limit due to the head-on beam-beam interaction at 2x1011, as expected by simulations. To overcome this limitation, two electron lenses will be used for compensation. We report on the commissioning of new lattices that reduce beam-beam driven resonance driving terms, and bunch-by-bunch proton diagnostic during 2013 run. The effect of electron beam transport solenoids on the proton orbit was tested. The instrumentation for Blue electron lens was tested and electron beam was propagated from the gun to the collector. A timing system was implemented for the electron beam. Control software, machine protection and synoptic display were developed and tested during commissioning. Both Blue and Yellow electron lens superconducting magnets are installed and their field straightness was measured and corrected in the tunnel using a magnetic needle. The Yellow vacuum system and backscattered electron detectors installation are also completed now.

 






Slides TUOCA2 [3.466 MB]
            
 


 




