













PAC2013 - Table of Session: TUOCB (Contributed Oral Presentations, Light Sources and FELs)


TUOCB —  Contributed Oral Presentations, Light Sources and FELs   (01-Oct-13   15:00—15:30)
Chair: D. Teytelman, Dimtel, San Jose, USA


Paper
Title
Page



TUOCB1
Machine Based Optimization Using Genetic Algorithms in a Storage Ring
430


 

K. Tian, J.A. Safranek, Y.T. Yan
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Funding: This study is supported by DOE Contract No. DE-AC02-76SF00515.
The genetic algorithm (GA) has been a popular technique in optimizing the design and operation of particle accelerators. As a population based algorithm, GA requires a large amount of evaluations of the objective functions, which can be very time consuming. One can benefit from parallel computing with significantly reduced computing time when fulfilling the function evaluation by a numerical machine model in simulation codes. As a result, this is the most common approach in GA applications. In this paper, we present a successful experimental demonstration of applying the GA in real machine based optimization. We conduct the optimization of the linear coupling of the SPEAR3 storage ring using the GA by directly varying the strengths of SPEAR 3 skew quadrupoles, the decision variables, and measuring the beam loss rates, the sole objective function. The results in this paper can shed light on new applications of GAs in particle accelerator community.

 






Slides TUOCB1 [1.368 MB]
            
 


 



TUOCB2
Successful Completion of the ALS Brightness Upgrade
433


 

C. Steier, B.J. Bailey, K. Berg, A. Biocca, A.T. Black, P.W. Casey, D. Colomb, R.F. Gunion, N. Li, A. Madur, S. Marks, H. Nishimura, G.C. Pappas, K.V. Petermann, G.J. Portmann, S. Prestemon, A.W. Rawlins, D. Robin, S.L. Rossi, T. Scarvie, D. Schlueter, C. Sun, H. Tarawneh, W. Wan, E.C. Williams
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA
C. Chen, J. Jin, Y.M. Wen, J. Wu, L. Yin, J.D. Zhang, Q.G. Zhou
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: The Advanced Light Source is supported by the Director, Office of Science, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, of the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract No. DE-AC02-05CH11231.
The Advanced Light Source (ALS) at Berkeley Lab is one of the brightest sources for soft x-rays worldwide. A multiyear upgrade of the ALS is underway, which includes new and replacement x-ray beamlines, a replacement of many of the original insertion devices and many upgrades to the accelerator. The accelerator upgrade that affects the ALS performance most directly is the brightness upgrade, which reduced the horizontal emittance from 6.3 nm to 2.0 nm (2.5 nm effective), resulting in one of the lowest horizontal emittances of operating light sources. Magnets for this upgrade were installed in late 2012 and early 2013 followed by successful commissioning and user operation with 2.0 nm horizontal emittance.

 






Slides TUOCB2 [4.931 MB]
            
 


 




