













PAC2013 - Table of Session: THAP (Awards Session)


THAP —  Awards Session   (03-Oct-13   14:30—16:30)
Chair: F.C. Pilat, JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA


Paper
Title
Page



THAP1
An Overview of Lie Methods for Accelerator Physics
1134


 

A. J. Dragt
                       UMD, College Park, Maryland, USA

 


 

This talk will sketch how Hamiltonian mechanics can be formulated in Lie algebraic terms (indeed Poisson and Jacobi almost invented Lie algebras without knowing it), and how this formulation can be applied to the description and computation of particle orbits in accelerators in a way that both unifies both linear and nonlinear theory and leads to explicit results for realistic machines.

 






Slides THAP1 [0.224 MB]
            
 


 



THAP2
Perspectives on Beam Driven Plasma Acceleration: How We Got Here and Where Might We Be Going?
 


 

M.J. Hogan
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

This talk is a review of the past and future of beam-driven plasma acceleration.

 






Slides THAP2 [13.836 MB]
            
 


 



THAP3
Field Dependent Losses in Superconducting Niobium Cavities
 


 

A. Grassellino
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA

 


 

In this presentation I will report the investigation of superconducting properties of niobium samples via application of the muon spin rotation/relaxation (muSR) technique. We employ for the first time the muSR technique to study samples that are cutout from large and small grain 1.3 GHz radio frequency (RF) single cell niobium cavities. The RF test of these cavities was accompanied by full temperature mapping to characterize the RF losses in each of the samples. An interesting correlation is found between high field RF losses and field dependence of the sample magnetic volume fraction measured via muSR, suggesting an important role of magnetic flux motion and surface pinning in the high RF field cavity losses.

 






Slides THAP3 [3.630 MB]
            
 


 



THAP4
The Quest for Bright Coherent X-rays: A Personal Story
 


 

K.-J. Kim
                       ANL, Argonne, USA

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by the US Department of Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences under Contract No. DE-AC02-06CH11357.
This presentation will include stories associated with the author's work on the development of bright x-rays from the third generation sources and x-ray free-electron lasers.

 






Slides THAP4 [3.718 MB]
            
 


 



THAP5
Advanced Modeling of Beams and Accelerators
 


 

J.-L. Vay
                       LBNL, Berkeley, California, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by DOE High Energy Physics under contract DE-AC02-05CH11231 and US-DOE SciDAC program ComPASS. Used resources of NERSC, supported by US-DOE Contract DE-AC02-05CH11231.
Computer modeling of beams and accelerators has had a profound impact on the design and operations of modern particle accelerators, and its importance is growing with the development of more powerful computers and codes. The development and application of such codes have become extremely complex and specialized endeavors, and the complexity is about to reach new heights with the rise of heterogeneous many-core hardware. The breadth and depth of computational accelerator science and technology are both widening (trend toward multi-physics models with realistic geometry at full scale) and deepening (more sophisticated software on more complex architecture), calling for the development of teams of specialists including computational physicists, applied mathematicians and computer scientists. The importance and complexity of computer modeling of accelerators will be highlighted by examples of simulations of laser plasma accelerator stages, including recent advances in the application of the Lorentz boosted frame technique*.
* J.-L. Vay, Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 130405 (2007)

 






Slides THAP5 [22.521 MB]
            
 


 




