













PAC2013 - Table of Session: FRXB (Invited Oral Presentation, Medical Accelerators and Applications)


FRXB —  Invited Oral Presentation, Medical Accelerators and Applications   (04-Oct-13   09:30—10:00)
Chair: R. Hrovatin, I-Tech, Solkan, Slovenia


Paper
Title
Page



FRXB1
Superconducting Gantry and Other Developments at HIMAC
1463


 

Y. Iwata, T. Furukawa, Y. Hara, K. Mizushima, T.M. Murakami, K. Noda, S. Sato, T. Shirai, K. Shoda, S.S. Suzuki
                       NIRS, Chiba-shi, Japan
N. Amemiya
                       Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan
H. Arai, T. Fujimoto
                       AEC, Chiba, Japan
T.F. Fujita
                       National Institute of Radiological Sciences, Chiba, Japan
Y. Nagamoto, T. Orikasa, S. Takayama, T. Yazawa
                       Toshiba, Tokyo, Japan
T. Obana
                       NIFS, Gifu, Japan
T. Ogitsu
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

New developments at HIMAC include a superconducting carbon gantry, a new therapy area with three new treatment rooms, and substantial enhancements to the synchrotron extraction system to enable energy-variation within a synchrotron cycle to match characteristics of the gantry and three-dimensional raster scanning. This carbon gantry equips ten combined-function superconducting magnets, allowing us to design the compact gantry; the length and the radius of the gantry will be approximately 13 and 5.5 m, respectively, which are comparable to those for the existing proton gantries. Further, these superconducting magnets were designed to provide the fast slew rate of the magnetic field for the energy-variation operation of the synchrotron. The fabrication of the superconducting magnets has been made, and field measurements of the several magnets were performed. In this talk, the design of the superconducting gantry including the magnet design and results of the field measurements will be presented.

 






Slides FRXB1 [42.104 MB]
            
 


 




