













PAC2013 - Table of Session: MOOAB (Contributed Oral Presentations, Light Sources)


MOOAB —  Contributed Oral Presentations, Light Sources   (30-Sep-13   11:00—11:30)
Chair: M. Borland, ANL, Argonne, USA


Paper
Title
Page



MOOAB1
Initial Design of the MaRIE 1.0 X-FEL Linac
 


 

J.W. Lewellen, B.E. Carlsten, L.D. Duffy, Q.R. Marksteiner, S.J. Russell, N.A. Yampolsky
                       LANL, Los Alamos, New Mexico, USA

 


 

Funding: US Department of Energy
The MaRIE 1.0 X-FEL requires an electron beam at 12 GeV with 100pC bunch charge, 0.2 μm RMS normalized transverse emittance, and 0.15% RMS slice energy spread. These requirements place significant constraints upon the use of techniques, such as laser heaters, which have enabled other X-FELs to reach their design goals. In this paper, we present the current baseline design and performance of the MaRIE 1.0 linac, highlight current and anticipated challenges and describe potential alternate approaches for meeting our design performance goals.

 






Slides MOOAB1 [1.841 MB]
            
 


 



MOOAB2
Ultra-low Emittance Upgrade Options for the Diamond Light Source
24


 

R. Bartolini, N.P. Hammond, J. Kay, R.P. Walker
                       Diamond, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom
T. Pulampong
                       JAI, Oxford, United Kingdom

 


 

Many synchrotron radiation facilities are studying lattice upgrades in order to lower the natural emittance and hence increase the radiation brightness. While large circumference rings are favoured in reaching ultra small emittance, recent advances in design and optimisation tools allow also medium size ring to reach emittances down to the 100s pm region with workeable lattices. Diamond is investigating a novel design whereby low emittance is conjugated with doubling of the capacity of the ring, based on a double double bend achromat (DDBA) cell. Plans for the installation of two low emittance cells will be presented. These will serve as prototype for a full phased upgrade of the storage ring.

 






Slides MOOAB2 [4.655 MB]
            
 


 




