













PAC2013 - Table of Session: THOBB (Contributed Oral Presentations, Medical Accelerators and Applications)


THOBB —  Contributed Oral Presentations, Medical Accelerators and Applications   (03-Oct-13   14:00—14:30)
Chair: C. Joshi, UCLA, Los Angeles, California, USA


Paper
Title
Page



THOBB1
The 3rd Generation of Proton Therapy
 


 

J. Flanz
                       MGH-FHBPTC, Boston, Massachusetts, USA

 


 

Funding: National Cancer Institute Federal Share
For 50 years patients have been treated with proton therapy. It began in national laboratories and continued to the next generation of hospital based facilities built by commercial vendors. Proton therapy, while becoming more available still has room for growth. Why hasn't it become more widespread? Issues of cost and optimization of beam parameters have led to questions about the cost effectiveness of this modality and the requirements for more clinical trials. This talk will consider some of the issues that are important for the requirements of a 3rd generation of proton therapy systems.

 


 



THOBB2
Development of Low Energy Accelerator-Based Production of Medical Isotopes
1131


 

N. Ratcliffe, R.J. Barlow, R. Cywinski
                       University of Huddersfield, Huddersfield, United Kingdom
P. Beasley
                       Siemens AG, Healthcare Technology and Concepts, Erlangen, Germany

 


 

Here we present methods for production of new and existing isotopes for SPECT (Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography) imaging using accelerator-based systems. Such isotopes are already widely used in medical diagnostics and research, and there is constant development of new drugs and isotopes. However the main production method for Tc-99m, is currently in research reactors and is at risk due to scheduled and unscheduled shut downs. Therefore, a low cost an alternative accelerator-based system could provide many advantages. Various compact low energy proton machines are being proposed to enable cheap and accessible production: here we present a discussion of potential new SPECT isotopes and simulations of suitable targets for their manufacture.

 






Slides THOBB2 [1.145 MB]
            
 


 




