













PAC2013 - Table of Session: WEYB (Invited Oral Presentations, Industrial Accelerators and Applications)


WEYB —  Invited Oral Presentations, Industrial Accelerators and Applications   (02-Oct-13   10:30—12:30)
Chair: R.W. Hamm, R&M Technical Enterprises, Pleasanton, California, USA


Paper
Title
Page



WEYB1
Commercial Applications of Small SRF Accelerators
 


 

T.L. Grimm
                       Niowave, Inc., Lansing, Michigan, USA

 


 

Niowave, Inc. has developed complete turn-key superconducting electron linacs for a broad range of commercial applications. In addition to the niobium accelerating structure, the complete system includes the liquid helium refrigerator, high power microwave source, radiation shielding and licensing from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. This integrated system enables a company or university research group to quickly and inexpensively use the electron beam for a number of applications, including high-power x-ray sources, production of medical radioisotopes, and high-power free-electron lasers. Superconducting technology allows the linac to operate continuously with higher average beam intensity (current) than any other type of accelerator (cyclotron, copper linac, etc.). Linacs with beam energy of 0.5 to 50 MeV and average beam power of 1 W to 1 MW are under development, and two integrated helium refrigerator models have been developed with leading experts in the cryogenic industry. This contribution will discuss these integrated accelerator systems.

 






Slides WEYB1 [5.346 MB]
            
 


 



WEYB2
Ion Implantation for Semiconductor Devices: The Largest Use of Industrial Accelerators
740


 

S.B. Felch
                       Susan Felch Consulting, Los Altos Hills, California, USA
M.I. Current
                       Current Scientific, San Jose, USA
M.C. Taylor
                       Taylor Consulting, USA

 


 

The implantation of ion beams into materials, primarily semiconductors, is by far the largest industrial accelerator application, with more than 10,000 systems having been sold for this purpose during the past 30 years. This talk should review the status of this very large application.

 






Slides WEYB2 [15.467 MB]
            
 


 



WEYB3
Electron Beam Irradiation Applications
745


 

S. Sabharwal
                       IAEA, Vienna, Austria

 


 

The irradiation of materials with electron beams or X-rays is used extensively to enhance or modify their physical, chemical, or biological properties. These electron beam "irradiators" cover a very wide range of accelerator technology, beam current and energies to produce a wide variety of products, mostly with polymers. They also are used for curing ink, coatings, and adhesives, as well as for the sterilization of medical products, disinfection and preservation of food. The emerging applications include treatment of waste waters and flue gases, and degradation of plastics for use in coating and inks. The status of applications and role of IAEA in enhancing these will be presented.

 






Slides WEYB3 [8.540 MB]
            
 


 



WEYB4
Low Energy Electron Linacs for Homeland Security
 


 

H.B. Chen
                       TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China
Y. Yang
                       ANL, Argonne, USA

 


 

This presentation should provide an overview of the latest developments on the technologies of low energy electron linacs and their applications at cargo inspection, irradiation for quarantine, and so on.

 






Slides WEYB4 [9.885 MB]
            
 


 




