













PAC2013 - Table of Session: WEOAB (Contributed Oral Presentations, Hadron Accelerators)


WEOAB —  Contributed Oral Presentations, Hadron Accelerators   (02-Oct-13   09:30—10:00)
Chair: Y. Yamazaki, FRIB, East Lansing, USA


Paper
Title
Page



WEOAB1
Status of the FRIB Front End
734


 

E. Pozdeyev, N.K. Bultman, G. Machicoane, G. Morgan, X. Rao, Q. Zhao
                       FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science under Cooperative Agreement DE-SC0000661
The FRIB Front End will provide beams of stable ions with a mass up to uranium at a beam energy of 500 keV/u and intensity required to achieve a power of 400 kW on the fragmentation target. In this paper, we describe progress with the design and construction of the Front End and its systems.

 






Slides WEOAB1 [5.861 MB]
            
 


 



WEOAB2
Upgrade of Argonne's CW SC Heavy Ion Accelerator
737


 

P.N. Ostroumov, A. Barcikowski, Z.A. Conway, S.M. Gerbick, M. Kedzie, M.P. Kelly, S.H. Kim, S.V. Kutsaev, R.C. Murphy, B. Mustapha, R.C. Pardo, D.R. Paskvan, T. Reid, S.I. Sharamentov, G.P. Zinkann
                       ANL, Argonne, USA

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Nuclear Physics, under Contract No. DE-AC02-06CH11357.
The ATLAS National User Facility is world’s first CW superconducting linac and provides variety of ion beams for nuclear physics experiments for the past 30 years. The accelerator is being continuously upgraded to extend the scientific reach. A new normal conducting CW RFQ capable to provide total voltage up to 2.1 MV for the heaviest uranium ions has been added in the front of the SC linac in order to increase efficiency and intensity of both stable and radioactive ion beams. The RFQ has been fully integrated into the ATLAS and it is routinely operated since January 2013. A new cryomodule of high-performance 72.75 MHz SC QWRs has been built and currently it is being commissioned off-line. New design and fabrication techniques have been applied for production of QWRs which resulted to new record voltages up to 4-5 MV per cavity and low residual resistance of 2-3 nOhm at 2K as was demonstrated in individual cold testing of several QWRs. Primary purpose of the new cryomodule is to increase intensity of accelerated stable ion beams. Beam commissioning will take place at the end of year after substantial modification of the booster area including radiation shielding.

 






Slides WEOAB2 [7.221 MB]
            
 


 




