













PCaPAC2012 - Table of Session: FRCC (PC vs Embedded Systems & Experimental Data Acquisition)


FRCC —  PC vs Embedded Systems & Experimental Data Acquisition   (07-Dec-12   12:05—13:05)
Chair: A. Roy, VECC, Kolkata, India


Paper
Title
Page



FRCC01
Design of the Data Acquisition System for the Nuclear Physics Experiments at VECC
268


 

P. Dhara, P. Maity, A. Roy, P.S. Roy, P. Singhai
                       VECC, Kolkata, India

 


 

The beam from K130 room temperature cyclotron is being extensively used for nuclear physics experiments for last three decades. The typical beam energy for the experiments is approximately 7-10MeV/nucleon for heavy ions and 8-20MeV/nucleon for light ions. The number of detectors used, may vary from one channel to few hundreds of detector channels. The proposed detector system for experiments with the superconducting cyclotron may have more than 1200 detector channels,and may be generating more than one million parameters per second. The VME and CAMAC based data acquisition system (DAQ) is being used to cater the experimental needs. The current system has been designed based on various commercially available modules in NIM, CAMAC and VME form factor. This type of setup becomes very complicated to maintain for large number of detectors. Alternatively, the distributed DAQ system based on embedded technology is proposed. The traditional analog processing may be replaced by digital filters based FPGA boards. This paper describes the design of current DAQ system and the status of the proposed scheme for distributed DAQ system with capability of handling heterogeneous detector systems.

 






Slides FRCC01 [1.239 MB]
            
 


 



FRCC02
A FPGA Based High Speed Data Acquisition Card
271


 

J.A. Gore, P. V. Bhagwat, A. Chatterjee, S. Kailas, S. Kulkarni, K. Mahata, S.K. Pandit, V.V. Parkar, A. Shrivastava
                       BARC, Mumbai, India

 


 

Funding: Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Nuclear Physics Division
A FPGA based, high speed,two channel,analog input card with a maximum input sampling rate of 1 Giga samples per second (Gsps)per channel has been designed and tested. The card has got an on-board cPCI interface but has been designed in a way that it can also work as a stand-alone system. The card can function as a platform for developing and evaluating different FPGA based hardware designs. Recently, the card has been used to develop a direct sampling Low Level RF (LLRF) controller for controlling the electromagnetic fields of a prototype heavy ion RFQ. It has also been tested for acquisition of data in nuclear physics experiments. Pulses from surface barrier and silicon strip detectors were acquired at an input sampling rate of 1 Gs/s employing 241Am and Am-Pu sources. The design developed for this makes use of pre-triggering. This paper discusses the functionality, salient design issues and features of the card. Finally the hardware designs of above mentioned applications related to different areas of LLRF control and nuclear pulse acquisition are explained and the results obtained are presented.

 






Slides FRCC02 [1.431 MB]
            
 


 



FRCC03
Development and Performance Analysis of EPICS Channel Access Server on FPGA based Soft-core Processor
274


 

S. Sahoo, T. Bhattacharjee, S. Pal
                       VECC, Kolkata, India

 


 

A soft core processor is a flexible hardware description language (HDL) model of a specific processor (CPU) that can be customized for a given application and synthesized for an FPGA as opposed to a hard core processor which is fixed in silicon. Combined with an on-board ethernet port, the technology incorporates integrating the IOC and digital control hardware within a single FPGA thus reducing the overall hardware complexities of field devices. In this paper, the technical details of porting EPICS Channel Access Server on MicroBlaze soft-core processor are explained. The EPICS performance on the Microblaze processor is analyzed. For this, the CPU load and server processing time for different numbers of Process Variables (PVs) have been studied for this platform. On the basis of the analysis, critical parameters of EPICS on this embedded platform have been derived and a few modifications in the channel access protocol are proposed for MicroBlaze soft-core processor.

 






Slides FRCC03 [2.238 MB]
            
 


 



FRCC04
Digital Pulse Processing Techniques for High Resolution Amplitude Measurement of Radiation Detector
279


 

P. Singhai, P. Dhara, A. Roy
                       VECC, Kolkata, India
S. Chatterjee
                       HITK, Kolkata, India

 


 

The digital pulse processing techniques for high resolution amplitude measurement of radiation detector pulse is an effective replacement of expensive and bulky analog processing as the digital domain offers higher channel density and at the same time it is cheaper. We have demonstrated a prototype digital setup with high-speed sampling ADC with sampling frequency of 80-125 MHz followed by series of IIR filters for pulse shaping in a trigger-less acquisition mode. The IIR filters, peak detection algorithm and the data write-out logic was written on VHDL and implemented on FPGA. We used CAMAC as the read out platform. In conjunction with the full hardware implementation we also used a mixed-platform with VME digitizer card with raw-sample read out using C code. The rationale behind this mixed platform is to test out various filter algorithms quickly on C and also to benchmark the performance of the chip level ADCs against the standard commercial digitizer in terms of noise or resolution. The paper describes implementation of both the methods with performance obtained in both the methods.

 






Slides FRCC04 [1.248 MB]
            
 


 




