













PCaPAC2012 - Table of Session: THPD (Poster Thursday)


THPD —  Poster Thursday   (06-Dec-12   16:30—18:00)



Paper
Title
Page



THPD02
What it Takes to Make a System Reliable
139


 

M.R. Clausen, M. Möller, S. Rettig-Labusga, B. Schoeneburg
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

What is a reliable system and how is reliability defined? This depends on the actual situation and in which environment the system is operated. If you can rely on a scheduled downtime of the controlled system every week, reliability is defined in hours or weeks. In this case the system must run just longer than the scheduled downtime. If the system has to continuously operate for months and even years, your requirements are rising. In cases where continuous operations must be guaranteed even during software or hardware updates, redundant systems come into play. The hardware selection process is driven by basic requirements like 'no moving parts' or 'redundant power supplies'. This implies the selection of possible (fan-less) CPU boards with passive cooling. It also implies no hard discs and reduces therefore the selection of possible operating systems. Continuous operation during updates requires redundant controllers/ CPUs also in addition to redundant power supplies. The latter has a lot of impact on the software running inside the controllers. We will describe the selection process of the components we have chosen and summarize our experience of several years of operations.

 






Poster THPD02 [0.280 MB]
            
 


 



THPD03
PLC Controlled Search & Secure Safety Interlock System for Accelerator
142


 

V. Sharma, S. Acharya, S. Gond, K.C. Mittal, R.N. Rajan
                       BARC, Mumbai, India

 


 

PLC based search and scram system is designed and commissioned to ensure the accelerator cell being free from any human occupancy before we start the accelerator. Search and Scram units which are controlled by PLC have been installed at different places inside the cell area. The operator of the accelerator has to clear all the units by pressing the secure button. Clearing each of the unit and pressing the button ensures that there is nobody left inside the cell after all the units are cleared. If someone remains trapped inside cell even after search and secure operation successfully performed, he can press any emergency button located on each of the Scram unit to switch off the accelerator immediately. The operation is time limited so if the operator fails to do the search operation in time, the entire system will get tripped and will require to the operator to do the entire operation again. This system generates HV ON enable signal. If any of the door is opened or Scram is pressed the HV supply switches off and radiation ceases off immediately. This system has the merit that it offers timing and sequence flexibility but retains the safety merit of hard wired circuit.

 






Poster THPD03 [0.571 MB]
            
 


 



THPD04
Machine Throughput Improvement Achieved Using Innovative Control Technique
144


 

V. Sharma, S. Acharya, K.C. Mittal
                       BARC, Mumbai, India

 


 

Funding: BARC, Mumbai
A 10MeV, Electron beam, RF Linac is operational at EBC, Kharghar, Navi Mumbai. The beam output scans one meter length in a scan horn. The product under irradiation is placed in a conveyor trolley where trolley is one meter long and one meter gap between the trolleys. With the constant speed of 5mtrs/min operation of trolley, the dose utilization is 50% since the beam falls in the gap between the trolleys. We have modulated the speed as 5mtrs./min when trolley gap is under the beam and 0.1 mtrs./min when trolley is under the beam. This way the beam utilization for the irradiation goes up to 98% hence 48% rise in productivity. A 20kV 10KJ Electromagnetic machining (EMM) facility is developed by APPD/BARC. In this EMM facility a large value capacitor is charged by a DC supply to a constant voltage. This charged capacitor is then discharged using triggered spark gap into a coil to generate intense magnetic field. This magnetic field generates the eddy current into the job piece to do the forming. We have used a PLC based control system to control the machine.

 






Poster THPD04 [0.341 MB]
            
 


 



THPD05
Design and Analysis of Second Harmonics Modulator for DC Current Transformer
145


 

K.D. Joshi, K. Reju
                       BARC, Mumbai, India

 


 

DC Current Transformers (DCCT) are widely used in the world of particle accelerators. DCCT is a device which produces even harmonics, predominantly second harmonics corresponding to DC beam current flowing through two toroids. The second harmonics is detected by digital synchronous detector implemented in programmable logic. Current proportional to the detected second harmonic is passed through the toroids in a feedback loop such that the flux due to the DC beam current is cancelled by it. This feedback current is the measure of average beam current. The high permeability toroids, excitation and output windings are collectively called magnetic modulator, which is a key component of DCCT. Design and analysis of a second-harmonic magnetic modulator used as a detector for DC Current transformer for high resolution current measurement is presented.

 






Poster THPD05 [0.498 MB]
            
 


 



THPD06
FLogbook: From Concept to Realization
148


 

B.S.K. Srivastava, R.K. Agrawal, K.G. Barpande, P. Fatnani, C.P. Navathe
                       RRCAT, Indore (M.P.), India

 


 

Indus-1 and Indus-2, the Synchrotron Radiation Source (SRS) facilities at RRCAT Indore are national facilities and being operated on round the clock basis to provide synchrotron radiations to users as well as carrying out machine studies. Both of these accelerators are widely distributed systems and employ many sub systems for their operation. These sub-systems are also made up of heterogeneous type of hardware and software modules. To keep the whole system up and running, the faults & failures encountered during machine operations are attended at site and all observations and rectifications information are to be recorded electronically by the crew members. FLogbook has been conceived and developed to meet such needs. This web based software operates in the Intranet environment over a three tier architecture. It mainly uses JavaServer Pages (JSP), JavaBeans and SQL databases for designing its building blocks. Using relational database, the package supports logging, e-mailing, searching & commenting the faults of various sub systems. This paper explains the salient features of FLogbook and also briefly describes the architectural design of the complete package.

 






Poster THPD06 [0.555 MB]
            
 


 



THPD09
Development of a Monitoring System for the FL-net Protocol
151


 

M. Ishii, T. Masuda, S. Ueda
                       JASRI/SPring-8, Hyogo-ken, Japan
T. Fukui
                       RIKEN/SPring-8, Hyogo, Japan

 


 

At SPring-8 and SACLA, we are using the FL-net for many control systems as a communication protocol between front-end computers and PLCs. The FL-net is one of the Ethernet-based open standard protocols for a factory floor network authorized by the Japan Electrical Manufacturers' Association. It is a UDP/IP based master-less token passing protocol and supports a cyclic transmission. At SACLA, we had some troubles in a data acquisition by using the FL-net for beam line equipment protection system. In a network based control system, an analysis of network packets is an effective way at troubleshooting. We developed a monitoring system for the FL-net protocol, which captures and analyzes all packets of an FL-net network segment, detects protocol failure events, and stores the event information into a relational database. We can easily refer to the stored information in the database via a web browser. The monitoring system is highly portable software based system without dedicated hardware implementing a protocol stack. In this paper, the design of the monitoring system for the FL-net will be presented.

 






Poster THPD09 [1.655 MB]
            
 


 



THPD10
Modular Beam Diagnostics Instrument Design for Cyclotrons
154


 

N. Chaddha, R.B. Bhole, P.P. Nandy, S. Pal, S. Sahoo
                       VECC, Kolkata, India

 


 

The Cyclotrons at VECC, Kolkata i.e. Room Temperature Cyclotron (RTC) and Superconducting Cyclotron (SCC) comprise of internal and external beam diagnostic systems. These systems provide the beam developer with position, intensity, beam profile, a visual impression of the size & shape of ion beam, and operational control over diagnostic components like 3-finger probe, Beam Viewer probe, Deflector probe, Faraday cup, X-Y slit, Beam viewer etc. Automation of these components was initially done using customized modules for individual sub-system. An expansion of this facility and various levels of complexity demand modular design to cater easy modification and upgradation. The overall requirements are analysed and modular cards are developed based on basic functionalities like valve operation, probe/ slit/ viewer control, position read-out, interlock, aperture control of beam line and communication. A 32-bit Advanced RISC Machine (ARM) based card with embedded EPICS is chosen as the master controller and FPGA/ microcontroller is used for functional modules. The paper gives a comprehensive description of all modules and their integration with the control system.

 






Poster THPD10 [0.522 MB]
            
 


 



THPD11
Facility Monitoring System using Storage Area Network for VEC and SCC
157


 

T. Bhattacharjee, R.B. Bhole, K. Datta, S. Pal, A. Roy, T. Samanta, D. Sarkar, Mr. Saxena
                       VECC, Kolkata, India

 


 

The facility monitoring system of cyclotron operational parameters at VECC is developed and commissioned recently. Storage Area Network(SAN) is used to isolate the control LAN and office LAN which ensures secured access of the control systems from outside world. EPICS gateway service and modified channel access save/restore tool have been used to integrate EPICS based control system of VEC and SCC with office network. This paper describes the implementation details and operational experiences of the overall facility monitoring system.

 


 



THPD12
Design and Implementation of an IEEE 802.15.4/ZigBee based Star Network for Data Acquisition and Monitoring
160


 

S. Guha, T.K. Bhaumik, C. Mallik, P.Y. Nabhiraj
                       VECC, Kolkata, India

 


 

ZigBee based wireless technology is used to provide a low cost, low power, secured, PAN solution for monitoring of parameters from several distributed vacuum pumping modules installed in the SCC injection line. The parameters include On-Off status of the modules, RPM of pump, input current and pressure reading of different vacuum gauges. The ZigBee stack is written in a simplified form so that each node can create a network and can join to any established network when powered on. End nodes can be replaced through a little modification in the firmware codes. End node consists of sensors, signal conditioning circuits, micro-controller and ZigBee Transceiver whereas the central node consists of micro-controller, Transceiver and UART interface. This paper highlights the future approach of utilizing this network for data acquisition related with environmental temperature, relative humidity, noise, water leakage from inaccessible areas of Cyclotron Vault, Pit, Basement and ECR Highbay for the ease of maintenance also demonstrate the development of an environment monitoring system powered by solar cells covering a wide area.

 






Poster THPD12 [0.194 MB]
            
 


 



THPD13
SocketCAN Device Support for EPICS IOCs
163


 

C. Burandt, U. Bonnes, J. Enders, M. Konrad, N. Pietralla
                       TU Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

Funding: Supported by DFG through CRC 634.
A large number of devices used at the S-DALINAC are controlled by IOCs running on standard personal computers via CAN bus (Controller Area Network). CAN interface controllers for PCs are commercially available from different manufacturers but although they all share the same basic functionality, most of them have a vendor-specific API. Moreover, traditional CAN drivers can usually be accessed by only one process at a time which avoids the use of sniffer programs for debugging. In contrast to that the SocketCAN network stack [1], included in recent Linux kernels, provides access to the CAN bus via network devices (BSD sockets) which can be accessed by multiple applications at the same time via a vendor independent interface. A set of open source CAN drivers provides access to controllers of different vendors. This contribution describes an EPICS device support that makes use of the SocketCAN framework and thereby is independent from the API of a specific vendor. The device support has been used successfully in a production environment at the S-DALINAC since almost two years.
[1] http://developer.berlios.de/projects/socketcan/

 






Poster THPD13 [1.748 MB]
            
 


 



THPD14
Status of the Migration of the S-DALINAC Accelerator Control System to EPICS
166


 

C. Burandt, U. Bonnes, J. Enders, F. Hug, M. Konrad, N. Pietralla
                       TU Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

Funding: Supported by DFG through CRC 634.
The S-DALINAC is a recirculating superconducting electron LINAC which has been in operation for twenty years. The control system had been developed in-house and, while being moderately reliable, has become very hard to maintain and nearly impossible to adapt to new requirements. The replacement of the old analog low-level RF control system by a modern digital solution in 2010 became a primer for the introduction of an EPICS-based control system. Several important subsystems have been migrated since then, but the process has not been completed yet. This contribution overviews the current status of the new control system and developments planned for the future. Basic hardware aspects are described as well as client software and operator interfaces. The general network infrastructure has been restructured in context of the ongoing migration and is also presented.

 






Poster THPD14 [0.306 MB]
            
 


 



THPD15
Multichannel  High Voltage Power Supply Controls Solution Using Compact Distributed Ethernet Based Boards and Qt Based GUI
169


 

J. Antony, R. Kumar
                       IUAC, New Delhi, India

 


 

Compact low cost Ethernet based remote controller boards have been developed and tested for distributed control of many DC-DC high voltage power supplies(0-2000V) to be used in large Neutron detector array at IUAC. The boards can be distributed over LAN using network switches for interconnect. Each board has its own unique MAC and IP address for independent read write operations. A 24 channel power supply system, each channel having a compact two layer board with the DC-DC HV converter, mounted on top layer, has been built and tested successfully to power detectors. A user friendly GUI has been developed using Qt as the preferred language which is compatible to both Linux and Windows. The advantage of such a system is that, it is easily expandable to a large number of power supplies, low cost, globally accessible, multiple users in a network can set or read any power supply value through a software control panel developed either as a simple browser based HTTP client or versatile HLL interface using LabVIEW, C++ etc. and OS independent.

 


 



THPD16
Fast Digital Feedback Control Systems for Accelerator RF System using FPGA
172


 

P.S. Bagduwal, P.R. Hannurkar, M. Lad, D. Sharma, N. Tiwari
                       RRCAT, Indore (M.P.), India

 


 

Funding: RRCAT Indore
Feedback control system plays important role for proper injection and acceleration of beam in particle accelerators by providing the required amplitude and phase stability of RF fields in accelerating structures. Advanced digital technologies allow development of control systems for RF applications. Digital LLRF system offers inherent advantages like flexibility, adaptability, good repeatability and low drift errors compared to analog system. For feedback control algorithm, I/Q control scheme is used. Properly sampling of down converted IF generates accurate feedback signal and eliminates the need of separate detector for amplitude and phase. Controller is implemented in Vertex-4 FPGA with proper control algorithm which offers fast correction with good accuracy and also controls the amplitude and phase in all four quadrants. Single I/Q modulator work as common correctors for both amplitude and phase. LO signal is derived from RF signal itself to achieve synchronization between RF, LO and FPGA clock. Control system has been successfully tested in laboratory with phase and amplitude stability better then ± 1% and ±1°. With minor modification same systems can be used at any frequencies.

 


 



THPD17
API Manager Implementation and its Use for Indus Accelerator Control
175


 

B.N. Merh, R.K. Agrawal, K.G. Barpande, P. Fatnani, C.P. Navathe
                       RRCAT, Indore (M.P.), India

 


 

The control system software needed for operation of Indus accelerators is interfaced to the underlying firmware and hardware of the control system by the Application Programming Interface (API) manager. PVSS-II SCADA is being used at the layer-1 (L1) for control and monitoring of various sub-systems in the three-layered architecture of Indus control system. The layer-2 (L2) consists of VME bus based system. The API manager plays a crucial role in interfacing the L1 and L2 of the control system. It has to interact with both the PVSS database and the L2. It uses the PVSS API, a C++ class library, to access the PVSS database, whereas in order to access the L2, custom functions have been built. Several other custom functionalities have also been implemented. This paper presents the important aspects of the API manager like its implementation, its interface mechanism to the lower layer and features like configurability, reusable classes, multithreading capability etc.

 






Poster THPD17 [1.119 MB]
            
 


 



THPD18
Adaptive Fuzzy Control for Transfer Channels in Particle Accelerators
178


 

S. Berlik
                       University of Siegen, Siegen, Germany
H. Ehrlichmann
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

Funding: DESY, Germany
Long-term objective of this work is to develop a fuzzy technology based control framework to be applied in particle accelerators. Main motivation for this is the promise of fuzzy systems to exploit the tolerance for imprecision, un-certainty, and partial truth to achieve tractability, robustness, and low solution cost. Intended areas of application are manifold: we think on automatic operation, optimization of the operating conditions and yields; applied to various stages in the processing of circular and linear accelerators. As a first step towards this goal a fuzzy control system for a transfer channel in a particle accelerator has been developed. For it we built up the machinery, i.e. algorithms, data structures, integration in the existing control system and did a first proof-of-concept. Special emphasis is given on handling high dimensional data streams and the immanent challenges as sparsity and equidistance of the data.

 






Poster THPD18 [0.569 MB]
            
 


 



THPD19
Drive System Control for Kolkata Superconducting Cyclotron Extraction System
181


 

T. Bhattacharyya, S. Bhattacharya, T. Das, C. Nandi, G.P. Pal
                       VECC, Kolkata, India

 


 

The K500 Superconducting Cyclotron at VECC, Kolkata uses two electrostatic deflectors, eight passive magnetic channels, one active magnetic channel and two compensating bars as its extraction elements. Except the active magnetic channel, all the other elements can be moved radially, typically by ±6 mm around a centre position. This maneuverability is due to the fact that not all the ions, spanning the operating region of the cyclotron, will have the same optimum beam extraction radius. At the end of the beam extraction channel, the beam is shaped and aligned by a pair of water cooled slit. The slit movement is pneumatically controlled as it has to be operated in high magnetic field. The computer controlled drive system can move the elements precisely. The paper will describe the drive system and its control mechanism.

 






Poster THPD19 [0.933 MB]
            
 


 



THPD20
RF Distribution and Control System for Accelerators of the VEC-RIB Facility
184


 

H.K. Pandey, S. Basak, D.P. Dutta, T.K. Mandi
                       VECC, Kolkata, India
A. Kumar, K. P. Ray
                       SAMEER, Kolkata, India

 


 

RIB facility at VECC has several heavy ion linear accelerators like RFQ, two IH-LNACs and one buncher cavity operating at 37.8 MHz and two IH-LINACs with one buncher cavity at 75.6 MHz. Some more RF cavities are being designed at the third harmonic of 37.8 MHz and will be added in the RIB beam line. All the cavities have separate RF power amplifiers with proper amplitude, phase and resonance frequency tuning and control system for efficient and stable operation. The LLRF control system has been operational for the power amplifiers of the existing RF cavities and improved design and development is carried out. The main features of the RF control system are phase and amplitude control of the RF input to the amplifiers and tuning of the RF cavity to the desired resonant frequency with automation using feedback control. It will also have various interlocks for the safety of the load as well as the amplifier. A micro-controller based data acquisition and processing system is being used for control and local/remote operation. The RF distribution system as well as the design details of RF control system will be presented in this paper.

 






Poster THPD20 [2.163 MB]
            
 


 



THPD21
Testing of Inductive Output Tube based RF Amplifier for 650 MHz SRF Cavities
187


 

S. Ghosh, A. Mandal, U. Panda, S. Seth, S.S. Som
                       VECC, Kolkata, India

 


 

A 650 MHz IOT based RF amplifier has been developed in VECC. It can be used to power several cavity modules in high energy high current proton linear accelerator to be built for ADSS programme in India and in Project-X at Fermilab, USA. The IOT based amplifier requires different powers supplies, water cooling and forced air cooling for its operation. A Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) based interlocks has been incorporated to take care of systematic on/off of the power supplies and driver amplifier, water flow, air flow and other interlocks for the safe operation of the RF System. In addition to that EPICS based RF operating console and data logging/monitoring system has been added.

 






Poster THPD21 [0.370 MB]
            
 


 



THPD22
Controls for a 10 Petawatt Class Laser Facility
190


 

D.A. Pepler
                       STFC/RAL, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom

 


 

Funding: Science & Technology Facilities Council, UK
Computerised controls are vital to the operability and flexibility of large-scale physics facilities (such as accelerators, synchrotrons and high-power lasers) in providing fundamental services, for example, automatic configuring of specialist hardware, motion control, firing of shot sequences, enabling precision trigger distribution, vacuum monitoring and control, data acquisition and analysis. The proposed 10PW Laser facility, in line with other major physics facilities around the world, will require a complex computer control system. This is expected to be modeled on the existing Vulcan Laser[1] control system and consist of a dozen or so Windows based PCs each of which will be running a separate and dedicated application to control a particular area or function of the facility. This paper will present an overview of the existing Vulcan laser and provide a status report on the development towards the 10PW which will require the control system to be designed to allow autonomous operation of the 10PW facility as well as to be fully integrated with the existing Vulcan laser controls for combined and synchronized 10PW plus 1PW operations.
[1] www.clf.stfc.ac.uk/Facilities/Vulcan/12248.aspx

 






Poster THPD22 [1.219 MB]
            
 


 



THPD26
Integrated Control System for LEHIPA
192


 

S.K. Bharade, T. Ananthkrishnan, A. Basu, G. Joshi, P.D. Motiwala, C.K. Pithawa, P. Singh, S. Singh
                       BARC, Trombay, Mumbai, India

 


 

The Low Energy High Intensity Proton Accelerator (LEHIPA) is a 20 MeV 30 mA proton accelerator which will be achieved in multiple stages. LEHIPA consists of several sub systems/devices located at different positions of the beam path which includes ION source , RF Power , RF Protection Interlock System, Low Conductivity Water plant, Low Level RF control Systems, Vacuum System, Beam Diagnostics & Beam Line Devices. All these subsystems have their own local control systems (LCS) which will coordinate the operation of the corresponding subsystem. The control system for LEHIPA is thus being designed as a Distributed Control System with different teams developing each LCS. The control system will assist the operator to achieve a beam of desired characteristics by interacting with various sub systems of the accelerator in a seamless manner,protect the various parts machine by generating the necessary interlocks ,keep track of various parameters monitored periodically by suitably archiving them, alarms annunciation and trouble shoot from the control room. This paper describes approach to system design of ICS.

 


 



THPD27
Control Scheme for Remote Operation of Magnet Power Supplies for Infrared Free Electron Laser
195


 

L. Jain, M.A. Ansari, V.P. Bhanage, C.P. Navathe
                       RRCAT, Indore (M.P.), India

 


 

Infrared Free Electron Laser (IRFEL) is under development at MAASD, RRCAT Indore. The IRFEL machine consists of 90keV thermionic gun as electron source, beam transport line, 25MeV Linear Accelerator (LINAC) and an undulator magnet. There are fifty magnets on beam transport line. These magnets are energized by precision power supplies. These power supplies have local as well as remote control and will be located at equipment hall. The control room and equipment hall are at approximate distance of 300 m. We have planned a three layer structure for centralized operation of Beam Transport line Magnet Power Supplies (BTMPS). These layers are device interface layer, the equipment control layer and the presentation layer. Presentation layer is linked with equipment control layer on Ethernet. Whereas equipment control layer will be linked to device interface layer by RS-485. Device interface layer consist Magnet Power Supply Controllers (MPSC). Each MPSC has one master and five slave controllers linked on isolated SPI bus, which will control five BTMPS. We have developed slave controllers and a master as prototype of MPSC. This paper describes MPSC prototype and proposed control scheme.

 






Poster THPD27 [0.818 MB]
            
 


 



THPD28
A Distributed CAN Bus Based Embedded Control System for 750 keV DC Accelerator
197


 

A. Kasliwal, T.G. Pandit
                       RRCAT, Indore (M.P.), India

 


 

Funding: RRCAT, Indore, Department of Atomic Energy, Government of India
This paper describes a distributed embedded system that uses a high performance mixed signal controller C8051F040 for its DAQ nodes and is based on CAN bus protocol for remote monitoring and controlling of various subsystems of 750 keV DC accelerator based irradiation facility at RRCAT, Indore. A PC with integrated PCI CAN card communicates with intelligent DAQ nodes over CAN bus and each node is interfaced with a subsystem. An opto- isolated SN65HVD230 CAN driver is interfaced between each node and physical bus. Remote frames and message prioritizing are used for efficient control. The PC application is developed using LabVIEW 8.6. The proposed system is more reliable and noise immune as compared to previously [1] used systems that initially used a centralized system based on C8051 controller. This was then upgraded [2] to a distributed system that used micro-controller AduC812 and communicated over RS485 link. The new system has been integrated and tested satisfactorily for its designed performance with test jigs that simulated the actual subsystems with a bus length of 75 meters. First the complete scheme of the system is presented, then the hardware and software designs are discussed.
[1] A. Kasliwal, "PC based control system for 750 KV DC accelerator", InPAC-2003, CAT, Indore, India [2] A. Kasliwal, "Upgradation of PC based control system for 750 keV DC accelerator", InPAC-2005, VECC, Kolkata, India

 


 



THPD30
High Voltage Controller System for Spectroscopy Diagnostics of SST-1
200


 

H.D. Mandaliya, P.V. Edappala, R. Jha, R. Rajpal, M. Shah
                       IPR, Bhat, Gandhinagar, India

 


 

We have developed special instrumentation for spectroscopy diagnostics of the SST-1 Tokamak. Light output in the visible spectrum is guided through fiber optics from the Tokamak ports to the diagnostics Hall, where photo multipliers tubes and other instrumentation electronics are kept. High Voltage(0 - 1500 V) bias generation electronics is required to bias these PMTs. Total 14 PMTs to be biased for overall requirements of the diagnostics. We have developed modular electronics for HV bias generation, which consist of one controller and seven HV modules. We have designed and developed FPGA based controller card which controls seven HV modules. The Slot-0 card is having Spartan 3E FPGA and Standalone Controller Area Networking (CAN) controller. 32-bit RISC processor Microblaze has been deployed into the FPGA. We have used Hitek make HV supply modules which is programmable. In the HV modules, Analog Device Inc. make iCoupler, digital isolators are used to break the ground loops and to avoid ground-lifting problem. Various features like Manual mode/Remote mode operation, HV ON/OFF, HV Value setting through remote GUI have been developed on LabVIEW software.

 


 



THPD32
Progress of the JINR e-Linac Accelerator Test-Bench Control Systems
203


 

M.A. Nozdrin, N. Balalykin, V. Minashkin, V.Y. Schegolev, G. Shirkov, G.V. Trubnikov
                       JINR, Dubna, Moscow Region, Russia

 


 

Due to Joint Institute for Nuclear Research participation in ILC collaboration, e-linac accelerator test-bench is being created in Laboratory of high energy physics of JINR. The bench is designed for several goals: accelerating structures and diagnostics testing, photoinjector prototype creation and investigation, radiation resistance studies of different materials etc. In addition, several proposals of FEL creation on the basis of the e-linac exist. Current setup, results of the test-bench control systems evolution since 2009 and future plans are presented. The most important updates include radiation control system calibration, verification and installation and an upgrade of the video control system.

 






Poster THPD32 [2.983 MB]
            
 


 



THPD33
Qt Based Control System Software  for Low Energy Accelerator Facility
206


 

A. Basu, S.K. Gupta, S.B.V. Nagraju, P. Singh, S. Singh
                       BARC, Mumbai, India

 


 

Qt based control system software for low energy accelerating facility is operational in Trombay, BARC. LEAF is 50 keV negative ion electrostatic accelerator based on SNICS ion source. Control system uses Nokia Trolltech's QT 4.x API for control system software. Ni 6008 USB based multifunction cards has been used for control and read back field equipments such as power supplies, pumps, valves etc. Control system architecture is designed to be client server. Qt is chosen for its excellent GUI capability and platform independent nature. Control system follows client server architecture. This paper will describe the control system.

 






Poster THPD33 [2.966 MB]
            
 


 



THPD35
Modeling and Simulation of Indus-2 RF Feedback Control System
208


 

D. Sharma, P.S. Bagduwal, P.R. Hannurkar, M. Lad, N. Tiwari
                       RRCAT, Indore (M.P.), India

 


 

Funding: RRCAT, Indore, Department of Atomic Energy, Government of India
The Indus-2 synchrotron radiation source has four RF stations along with their feedback control systems. For higher beam energy and current operation, amplitude and phase feedback control systems of Indus-2 are being upgraded. To understand the behavior of amplitude and phase control loop under different operating conditions, modeling and simulation of RF feedback control system is done. RF cavity base band quadrature domain model has been created due to its close correspondence with actual implementation and better computational efficiency which make the simulation faster. Correspondence between base band and actual RF cavity model is confirmed by comparing their simulation results. Base band Cavity model was studied under different operating conditions. LLRF feed back control system simulation is done using the same cavity model. Error signals are intentionally generated and response of the closed loops system is observed. With implementation of feedback control loop, broadening in the RF cavity bandwidth was also observed in terms of reduction in cavity fill time. Simulation will help us in optimizing parameters of upgraded LLRF system for higher beam energy and current operation.

 






Poster THPD35 [0.698 MB]
            
 


 



THPD36
An Embedded System Based Computer Controlled Process Automation for Recovery and Purification of 99mTc from (n, γ)99Mo
211


 

A. De, P. Bhaskar, A. Dutta Roy, M. Garai, V.K. Khare, S. Kumari, S.S. Pal, S. Saha, S.K. Thakur
                       VECC, Kolkata, India
L. Barua, S. Chattopadhyay, M.K. Das, U. Kumar, S. Saha Das
                       BRIT, Bidhan Nagar, India

 


 

99Mo produced 99mTc (t1/2=6hr, 140keV γ-ray) is the most useful radioisotope for nuclear diagnostics. High specific activity 99Mo is supplied globally mainly by five old reactors whose routine or unscheduled maintenance shutdown causes supply irregularities that adversely affects patient management in nuclear medicine centres. 99mTc may also be produced via 98Mo(n,γ) in a natural MoO3 target in reactor or by 100Mo(n,2n)99Mo or 100Mo(p,2n)99mTc reaction in cyclotron. To meet the crisis proposals are there to produce 99Mo by 100Mo(n,2n)99Mo or 99mTc directly by 100Mo(p,2n)99mTc in a cyclotron. Of the several separation methods of 99mTc from molybdenum, the most common are adsorption column chromatography, sublimation and liquid-liquid solvent extraction. The conventional methods besides being cumbersome are often hazardous, polluting, require skilled manpower and facilities like fume hood and so are not always practically feasible for hospitals. To address these, VECC and BRIT, Kolkata have collaborated to develop an embedded system based automated 99Mo/99mTc generator from low specific activity 99Mo using solvent extraction technique, supervised by a PC based GUI.

 






Poster THPD36 [0.428 MB]
            
 


 



THPD40
Instrumentation Architecture for ITER Diagnostic Neutral Beam Power Supply System
214


 

A.M. Thakar, U.K. Baruah, R. Dave, H.A. Dhola, S. Gajjar, V. Gupta, D.C. Parmar, A.M. Patel, B.M. Raval, N.P. Singh
                       IPR, Bhat, Gandhinagar, India
J.Y. Journeaux, D. Lathi, B. Schunke, S. Svensson
                       ITER Organization, St. Paul lez Durance, France

 


 

A Neutral Beam Injection system is used for either heating or diagnostics of the plasma in a tokamak. The Diagnostics Neutral Beam system [1] for ITER based on acceleration of negative ions; injects a neutral (Ho) beam at 100KeV with specified modulation into the plasma for charge exchange recombination spectroscopy. DNBPS system consists of HVPS, HCPS and RF Sources. The system operates in a given operating sequence; very high electromagnetic transients are intrinsically generated during operation. Instrumentation is to be provided to operate the DNBPS system remotely with required control and protection. The operation is to be synchronized with ITER operation as directed by CODAC. Instrumentation functionality includes  Acquisition of injector performance parameters,  Operation and control of necessary auxiliaries,  Protection of DNB components and power supplies using interlock system,  To ensure safe operation of high voltage hazardous systems and  To facilitate test and maintenance of individual subsystem.  This paper discusses about proposed DNB instrumentation architecture. The design generally follows the protocols from the ITER- Plant Control Design Handbook.
[1] Lennart Svensson et.al, "Instrumentation and diagnostics for the ITER Neutral Beam System", Fusion Engineering and Design 86 (2011) 

 






Poster THPD40 [1.032 MB]
            
 


 



THPD43
Electron Cyclotron Resonance Ion Source Control System
217


 

H.M. Kewlani, D.P. Chakravarthy, S. Gharat, L. Mishra, K.C. Mittal, P. Roychowdhury
                       BARC, Mumbai, India

 


 

The control system of Electron Cyclotron Resonance (ECR) ion source is computer based control system. Main components of ECR ion source are microwave generator, plasma chamber, solenoid magnets, high current power supplies, extraction electrodes, high voltage power supplies, beam measuring devices and vacuum system. All the electronics devices have their built in microprocessor base electronic interface, which can be remotely accessed by serial or Ethernet link. Two numbers of Ethernet to four port serial converter modules are used to extend the serial interface capabilities of computer. Serial interface of all the devices are connected to the extended serial ports of the computer. Serial link of high voltage power supplies are optically isolated using optical isolators to overcome EMI and EMC problems. Software has been developed in house for remote operation of the ECR ion source electronic devices like magnetron power supply, high voltage power supplies, high current power supplies, microwave power measurement and vacuum gauges.

 






Poster THPD43 [0.254 MB]
            
 


 



THPD44
The CS framework as a Control System for the HITRAP Facility at GSI
219


 

D. Neidherr, D.H. Beck, H. Brand, F. Herfurth
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany

 


 

At the GSI accelerator complex in Darmstadt Germany the linear decelerator HITRAP is currently under commissioning. The aim is to provide highly charged ions up to bare uranium at cryogenic temperatures for various experiments as for instance tests of the theory of quantum electrodynamics. The ions are delivered with kinetic energies of about 4 MeV/u from GSIs experimental storage ring (ESR) and are slowed down in several steps until they are trapped and cooled down in a Penning trap. Whereas for the ESR as well as for the first sections of the linear decelerator the GSI accelerator control system is used the cooler trap as well as the subsequent transfer section to the experimental area are controlled with the LabVIEW based CS-framework developed at GSI. This framework is an object-oriented, event driven and multi-threaded framework with SCADA functionality, which is currently in use at many different experiments world-wide. For the HITRAP facility additional features like an online beam monitoring, realized with the integration of a LVOOP class capable of reading out IMAQ cameras, as well as a new GUI were implemented, which allows automatic scans of beam elements.

 






Poster THPD44 [1.319 MB]
            
 


 



THPD45
Overview of Control System for 30MeV RF Source
222


 

R.B. Chavan, S. Chandan, K. Dixit, K.C. Mittal, A.R. Tillu, V. Yadav
                       BARC, Mumbai, India

 


 

Control system for RF source of 30 MeV, 3 kW RF Linac for neutron generation is being developed. The system consists of two 15 MeV linac structures, each powered independently with klystron rated for 7.5 MW(pk)/7.5 kW(avg). Two klystron modulators of 160kV, 110A, 7usec and 250Hz feed pulsed power into the klystron, which produces RF power at 2856 MHz. The klystrons will be driven by low power RF driver amplifiers programmed for matching phase, frequency and power into the linac. Both the driver amplifiers are controlled through RS-232 Protocol. The HV pulsing and RF drive for the klystron has been interlocked with water flow, arc detector, SF6 gas pressure etc. The control system is designed using Real time embedded controller, where pulses for synchronization are being generated in FPGA. Most of the power supplies like electromagnet, HVDC, etc. are on RS-232 protocol. These power supplies are controlled via suitable RS-232 to Ethernet converter. State machine topology is being used to design the logic. The database for logging data is developed in SQL. This paper describes the details of the software implementation and hardware used to realize the control of the RF power source.

 






Poster THPD45 [2.248 MB]
            
 


 



THPD46
Simulation Analysis of Analog IQ based LLRF Control of RF Cavity
225


 

S. Basak, A. Chakrabarti, H.K. Pandey
                       VECC, Kolkata, India

 


 

This paper presents the simulation analysis and results in Matlab Simulink of the analog Inphase-Quadrature (IQ) based LLRF control of RF cavity voltage. The RF cavity parameters were selected to be one of the RF cavities in our RIB project. All the subsystems in the IQ based RF control were modeled using the Simulink blocks/components. The envelope simulation was carried out using the IQ model of RF cavity. The PI controller was properly tuned to achieve good control performance in time. The simulation graphs showing the time evolution of the RF cavity voltage with a step changes of the input reference signal is presented. The simulation graphs showing the control response time needed to correct a disturbance is presented. Further the effects of beam currents (if not ignored) on the cavity voltage can been studied through the simulation graphs. The simulation results showing the amplitude and phase Bode/Nichols plots of the control loop and the gain and phase margin values obtained from them are presented, which are good enough for stability. Thus the control simulation RF cavity voltage is done in Simulink and the results obtained are presented.

 






Poster THPD46 [0.222 MB]
            
 


 



THPD47
Introduction of Non-Standard EPICS Controllers
227


 

I. Badillo, I. Arredondo, M. Eguiraun, D. Piso, M. del Campo
                       ESS Bilbao, Zamudio, Spain
J. Jugo
                       University of the Basque Country, Faculty of Science and Technology, Bilbao, Spain

 


 

Funding: ESS Bilbao
Although EPICS is a mature software framework, the study and validation of new configurations of EPICS systems is very valuable, since new ideas open its evolution and improvement. So, the goal of the present work is to introduce new technologies under EPICS control structures and test different configurations with innovative hardware in this kind of applications. More specifically, it is intended to validate the use of non-stardard EPICS controllers. This paper presents a test bench using LabVIEW together with EPICS. LabVIEW eases and speeds up the development of control structures, avoids the hardware dependent developing costs and offers almost absolute compatibility with all kind of hardware used in control and data acquisition. To validate its use, it is mandatory to make a study facing this solution and EPICS standard methodology, specifically CODAC system used in ITER. To do so, a test bench is defined running both methods and its results compared. Following this scheme, the next step is to make a similar experiment introducing wireless links and replacing as many wires as possible.

 






Poster THPD47 [0.646 MB]
            
 


 



THPD48
Reachability in a Finite Distributed System Protocol Model by Backward Traversal
230


 

T. Samanta, S. Mukherjee
                       VECC, Kolkata, India
D. Sarkar
                       IITKGP, West Bengal, India

 


 

Distributed system protocol verification has the intrinsic problem in mechanizing the reasoning pattern and the resultant state space exploration. The former arises in case of theorem proving approach due to the ingenuity involved in constructing a proof and the latter is encountered in model checking approach while carrying out composition of a large number of processes that constitute a typical distributed system. A combined approach of the above two methods has been devised that eventually considers the reachability in finite distributed system protocol model. It computes the reachability in backward traversal on the fly. Due to the complications in implementation, the Protocol Verification algorithm[1][2] is modified to reduce the number of states explored and hence the complexity of the algorithm. In this paper a C++ implementation of the on-the-fly backward traversal algorithm is reported.
[1] "Distributed System Protocol Verification: A Tableau Based Model Checking Approach", T. Samanta and D. Sarkar, VECC, India. ICCCT, 2011  [2] Distributed Algorithms, N. A. Lynch, 1948  

 






Poster THPD48 [1.161 MB]
            
 


 



THPD49
Design Considerations for Development of Distributed Data Acquisition and Control System  (DDACS) for Radio-active Ion Beam (RIB) Facility
234


 

K. Mourougayane, A. Balasubramanian, G. Karna, P.S.P. Penilop
                       SAMEER, Chennai, India
D.P. Dutta, T.K.M. Mandi, H.K. Pandey
                       VECC, Kolkata, India

 


 

The RIB facility is equipped with state of the art systems, Linear Accelerators (LINACs), High current Magnetic sources, High Power RF Transmitters and associated High voltage and high current systems to produce and accelerate Radio Active Ion Beam. Developing a Data Acquisition and Control System for RIB facility need expertise on multiple domain covering Data Acquisition, Instrumentation, Control Systems to meet the functional requirements and Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) aspects of system design to ensure Electromagnetic Interference (EMI) free operation. SAMEER-Centre for Electromagnetics, Chennai collaborated with VECC in the Research and Development Project to develop all necessary hardware and Control System to monitor and control the RIB facility. Through this project, a unique system called 'Distributed Data Acquisition and Control System was designed and indigenously developed. The D-DACS systems are qualified for the functional, Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) requirements as per IEC standards. The design approach and techniques used in developing the customized D-DACS system for controlling and monitoring the RIB facility will be presented in this paper.

 






Poster THPD49 [2.218 MB]
            
 


 



THPD50
FPGA Based Amplitude Control System for Accelerating Cavities
239


 

M.S. Dey, S. Ghosh, A. Mandal, S. Seth, A. Singh, S.S. Som
                       VECC, Kolkata, India

 


 

The FPGA (Field Programmable Gate Array) based digital controller has been implemented for Low level RF voltage control of a 650 MHz cavity. The flexibility of implementing any appropriate control strategy and to have a compact single board solution, FPGA is chosen. The superconducting Cavity is designed to be operated at 650 MHz and 30 kW, CW mode. The voltage from pick-up coil has been fed to the controller after down conversion. The signal is digitized using high speed ADCs. The controller has been tested with different set points and gain parameters from a software connected to the board with serial interface. The FPGA signal processing has been verified according to the required strategy of the reference controller. Some experimental results have been presented for different cavity operational conditions.

 






Poster THPD50 [0.613 MB]
            
 


 




