













RuPAC2014 - Table of Session: TUCB (Accelerator technologies (magnetic, acceleration and vacuum systems))


TUCB —  Accelerator technologies (magnetic, acceleration and vacuum systems)   (07-Oct-14   15:20—16:00)



Paper
Title
Page



TUCB01
Ultrahigh Vacuum in Superconducting Synchrotrons
23


 

A.V. Smirnov, A.V. Butenko, A.R. Galimov
                       JINR, Dubna, Moscow Region, Russia
A.M. Bazanov, A. Nesterov
                       JINR/VBLHEP, Dubna, Moscow region, Russia

 


 

The achievement of ultrahigh vacuum conditions in the range of 10-10 – 10-12 Torr is a very complicate task for charged particle accelerators. For superconducting accelerators the main rest gas is hydrogen which does not freeze effectively on the chamber wall even under the liquid helium temperature. Fast ramp of the magnetic field in the superconducting synchrotrons leads to the heating of the vacuum chamber that brings an additional problem for the achievement of the ultrahigh vacuum. In this talk the review of ultrahigh vacuum systems in superconducting accelerators is presented. Non-evaporated getters under the liquid nitrogen temperature are planned to the achievement of necessary vacuum conditions in the new accelerator complex of the NICA project (JINR, Russia).

 






Slides TUCB01 [2.220 MB]
        
 


 



TUCB02
RF System of the Booster of NICA Facility
26


 

G.Y. Kurkin, A.M. Batrakov, G.A. Fatkin, Ya.G. Kruchkov, S.A. Krutikhin, S.V. Motygin, A.M. Pilan
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia
G.A. Fatkin
                       NSU, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

The project NICA is being constructed in JINR, Dubna to provide collisions of heavy ion beams in the energy range from 1 to 4.5 GeV/u at the luminosity level of 1*1027 cm-2*s−1. One of the elements in the collider injection chain is BUSTER – a cycling accelerator of ions 197Au32+. The injection energy of particles is 6.2 MeV/u, extraction energy is 600 MeV/u. Two RF stations are to provide 10 kV of acceleration voltage. Frequency range of operation of the stations in the injector chain is from 634 kHz to 2400 kHz. The provisions are made for autonomous mode of operation of the stations in the frequency range of 0.5 – 5.5 MHz at the same accelerating voltage. Amorphous metal rings of Russian production are used in the RF cavities. RF stations are created in the Budker Institute of Nuclear Physics, SB RAS, Novosibirsk. The stations are tested in the operative mode and will be delivered to the customer in October, 2014. Main design features and parameters of RF cavity, power generator and control system of the stations are described in the paper.

 






Slides TUCB02 [1.265 MB]
        
 


 




