













RUPAC2018 - Table of Session: TUYMH (Particle dynamics)


TUYMH —  Particle dynamics   (02-Oct-18   11:10—12:10)



Paper
Title
Page



TUYMH01
Recent Study and Use Crystal Deflectors in U-70 Accelerator of IHEP - Status and Prospects
 


 

A.G. Afonin, V.T. Baranov, E.V. Barnov, Y.A. Chesnokov, O.P. Lebedev, V.A. Maisheev, A. Maksimov, S.F. Reshetnikov
                       IHEP, Moscow Region, Russia
V.I. Terekhov
                       Insititute of High Energy Physics (IHEP), People's Republic of China

 


 

Curved crystals have been successfully used for a long time on the proton synchrotron U-70 of IHEP for the extraction of high-energy proton beams. With the beginning of the program for accelerating carbon ions at the U-70, crystalline deflectors of different lengths and different bending angles have also found application to provide experimental physical installations with ion beams. The report overviews recent results of activity in implementing crystal deflectors to extract proton and ion beams for the fixed-target experiments at the U-70 synchrotron of IHEP of National Research Centre "Kurchatov Institute".

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



TUYMH02
Four-Beam Compensation With Two Beams
27


 

N.A. Vinokurov
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

The scheme of "figure 8" storage ring based collider with zero-angle collision and electron and positron beams of equal currents, but different energies, is considered. In the common straight section both electrons and positrons moves in both directions. Outside the common straight section electrons and positrons circulates in separated loops (which "reflects" both beams to the common straight section). Therefore, in multibunch mode one can provide collision of four bunches and space charge compensation. One can say, that this configuration consists of electron storage ring with electron-electron collisions and the positron storage ring with positron-positron collisions. The new scheme may solve the well-known problem of separating instabilities of the four-beam compensation.

 






Slides TUYMH02 [0.391 MB]
        
 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ https://doi.org/10.18429/JACoW-RUPAC2018-TUYMH02

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




