













RuPAC2014 - Table of Session: FRCB (Accelerators for medical and industrial applications)


FRCB —  Accelerators for medical and industrial applications   (10-Oct-14   10:00—10:40)



Paper
Title
Page



FRCB01
Problems and Prospects of the Tandem Accelerator with Vacuum Insulation
465


 

S.Yu. Taskaev, D.A. Kasatov, A.S. Kuznetsov, A.N. Makarov, I.M. Shchudlo, I.N. Sorokin
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

Funding: Ministry of Education and Science of Russia (project RFMEFI57614X0181)
At BINP for development of boron neutron capture therapy it is proposed and constructed the tandem accelerator with vacuum insulation, which is characterized by rapid acceleration of charged particles. Problems of high-voltage strength gaps due to the large stored energy and strong electrostatic lens are solved. It is obtained a stationary 1.6 mA 2 MeV proton beam having 0.1% energy monochromaticity and 0.5% current stability. It is clarified, that further increase of the proton current in the stable mode without breakdowns is limited by the accompanying current in the high-voltage gaps. It is proposed to make vacuum conditions better in the input of the accelerator using additional cryopump, to modernize argon stripping target by its tilting or shifting and to use differential pumping inside the high-voltage electrode. Obtaining of the 3 mA 2.5 MeV proton beam will allow us to conduct boron neutron capture therapy.

 






Slides FRCB01 [0.815 MB]
        
 


 



FRCB02
Dynamics of Processes in Subcritical Reactor Driven by Linear Accelerator
467


 

A.G. Golovkina, I.V. Kudinovich, D.A. Ovsyannikov
                       St. Petersburg State University, St. Petersburg, Russia
Y.A. Svistunov
                       Saint Petersburg State University, Saint Petersburg, Russia

 


 

Funding: St. Petersburg State University, grant No. 9.38.673.2013
In this paper dynamics of processes in accelerator driven system (ADS) is considered. ADS reactor operates at subcritical level and the necessary neutron supply comes from the interaction of a charged particles beam with a heavy atom nucleus (spallation reaction). Mathematical model of dynamics of subcritical reactor controlled by linear accelerator is presented. Calculation results of transient processes in the reactor core taking into account fuel feedback. The reactor power level control is carried out through the regulation of linac current impulses frequency.

 


 



FRCB03
Accelerators Application for Radiation Processing of Foodstuffs
470


 

M.A. Zavialov
                       RRICT, Vidnoye, Russia

 


 

During last couple decades in Russia an interest in the electron-beam sterilization technology has been significantly renewed. The electron beam irradiation occurs at electron energies in the range from 3 up to 10 MeV with dose of 30 kGy. A special research interest is an exploring the possibility to reduce electron energy and dose characteristics upon foods irradiation.

 


 




