













RuPAC2014 - Table of Session: FRCA (Particle dynamics in accelerators and storage rings, cooling methods)


FRCA —  Particle dynamics in accelerators and storage rings, cooling methods   (10-Oct-14   09:00—10:00)



Paper
Title
Page



FRCA01
Cooling Storage Ring CR of the FAIR Facility - Status and Perspectives
456


 

Yu. A. Rogovsky, D.E. Berkaev, A.S. Kasaev, E.S. Kazantseva, I. Koop, A.A. Krasnov, A.V. Semenov, P.Yu. Shatunov, D.B. Shwartz, A.A. Starostenko
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia
U. Blell, C. Dimopoulou, A. Dolinskyy, O.E. Gorda, U. Laier, H. Leibrock, S.A. Litvinov, I. Schurig, U. Weinrich
                       GSI, Darmstadt, Germany
Yu. A. Rogovsky
                       NSU, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

The Collector Ring (CR) is a wide aperture storage ring of the FAIR international facility (Darmstadt, Germany) dedicated to perform the stochastic precooling of secondary particles, rare isotopes or antiprotons. BINP (Novosibirsk) takes responsibility on the design and construction of almost all systems of the CR. The project status, preliminary design of main systems and results of the modelling of beam dynamics are presented.

 






Slides FRCA01 [2.060 MB]
        
 


 



FRCA02
Time Dependence of Ion Beam Transverse Phase-Space Portrait Orientation During Linac Proton Injector Pulse
459


 

O.T. Frolov, A. Belov, S.E. Golubovskiy, E.S. Nikulin, V. Zubets
                       RAS/INR, Moscow, Russia

 


 

As a result of analysis conducted a transients of the 400 kV column intermediate electrode potential have been determined as one of the main processes responsible for change of beam phase-space portrait orientation during 200 mks, 50 Hz proton injector high voltage accelerating pulse. Beam transport simulation shows high sensitivity of the beam phase-space portrait orientation to variation of the intermediate electrode potential. It has been found that significant variation of this potential takes place due to transition process during a pulse in the capacitor-resistor voltage water divider of the accelerating tube. The divider capacities matching procedure has been performed. The beam emittance measurements results have shown that within the accuracy of observation the beam transverse phase-space portrait orientation remains constant during injector pulse with the accelerating tube voltage divider being compensated.

 






Slides FRCA02 [0.824 MB]
        
 


 



FRCA03
Electron and Positron Beams Transportation Channels to BINP Colliders
462


 

I.M. Zemlyansky, D.E. Berkaev, V.A. Kiselev, I. Koop, A.V. Otboev, A.M. Semenov, A.A. Starostenko
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia

 


 

Funding: Ministry of Education and Science of the Russian Federation, NSh-4860.2014.2
The overview of electron and positron beams transportation channels from injection complex VEPP-5 to VEPP-4M and VEPP-2000 colliders is presented. The last one is discussed in details. The lattice functions, magnetic elements, beam diagnostic system ans vacuum system are presented. The beam commissioning is scheduled to the end of the year.

 






Slides FRCA03 [1.039 MB]
        
 


 




