













SAP2017 - Table of Session: WEAH (Oral Session 9)


WEAH —  Oral Session 9   (30-Aug-17   08:30—10:00)



Paper
Title
Page



WEAH3
Proton Beam Line of Compact Laser Plasma Accelerator at Peking University
 


 

J.G. Zhu, J.E. Chen, Q. Liao, C. Lin, H.Y. Lu, Y.R. Lu, W.J. Ma, Wu,M.J. Wu, X. Xu, X.Q. Yan, A.L. Zhang, Y.Y. Zhao, K. Zhu
                       PKU, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: Supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant No. 11575011, and National Grand Instrument Project under Grant No 2012YQ030142.
A proton-type of compact laser plasma accelerator (CLAPA) has been built at Peking University. Stable proton beams have been generated in the experiments of high intensity (8.3*1019 W/cm2) laser pulses irradiating on home-made sub-micrometer thick plastic targets. The temporal contrast of the laser pulse was 1010 at 100 ps before the main pulse with a cross-polarized wave (XPW) system, and no plasma mirror was used in CLAPA system. The maximum proton energy exceeded 15 MeV when using 1.2 um plastic targets. Proton beams with energy higher than 8.5 MeV were also detected with 20 nm thick plastic targets. A beam line that consists of common magnetic devices is also designed and built, aiming to deliver proton beams with energy of 1~44 MeV, energy spread of ±5% and 108 protons per pulse to the irradiation target platform. The parameters of the beamline system are carefully designed and optimised to obtain a radially symmetric proton distribution at the irradiation platform. In the preliminary CLAPA accelerator and beam line joint experiments, the effective transporting and focusing of accelerated protons with selected energy has been observed.

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



WEAH4
Bunch Length Measurement System for 500 kV Photocathode DC Gun at IHEP
172


 

O. Xiao
                       Institute of High Energy Physics (IHEP), People's Republic of China
X.P. Li, D.R. Sun, X. Wang, J.R. Zhang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

In September of 2011, a 500 kV photocathode DC gun was proposed for FEL-ERL two purpose facility at Insti-tute of High Energy Physics(IHEP). So far, the whole system has been installed and the preliminary high voltage conditioning has been carried out. Since the photocathode response time influence the beam quality, the bunch length measurement system is required, which consist of a solenoid, a 1.3 GHz standing wave deflecting cavity, a slit and a YAG screen. In this paper, the design of a deflecting cavity with TM210 mode is presented. In addition, the beam dynamics study of the bunch measurement system is performed using ASTRA and the layout of the bunch measurement system is determined. The bunch length in simulation is in good agreement with theoretical calculation.

 


DOI •
reference for this paper 
              ※ https://doi.org/10.18429/JACoW-SAP2017-WEAH4

 


Export •
reference for this paper using 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text/Word, 
              ※ RIS, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




