













SAP2014 - Table of Session: THAMH (Thursday Morning Oral Session)


THAMH —  Thursday Morning Oral Session   (14-Aug-14   08:30—11:40)



Paper
Title
Page



THAMH1
Recently Progress of Tsinghua Thomson Scattering X-ray Source
 


 

Y.-C. Du, H.B. Chen, J.F. Hua, W.-H. Huang, J. Shi, C.-X. Tang, L.X. Yan
                       TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

In the last three years, we have successfully generated high quality hard X-ray pulse at Tsinghua Thomson scattering X-ray source. The X-ray parameters, such as flux, beam profile, energy and spectrum, were measured successfully. One of the most interesting applications, x-ray phase contrast imaging, has also demonstrated on this facility. In this paper, we will show the recent progress of this facility in detail.

 


 



THAMH2
Review of Crosstalk between Beam-beam Interaction and Lattice Nonlinearity in e+e− Colliders
94


 

Y. Zhang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China
D. Zhou
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

According to the traditional knowledge, it is believed that the nonlinearity in the arc would not reduce the beam-beam performance, since the beam-beam force is dominated in the beam core region while the lattice nonlinearity is dominated in the beam halo region. However in the recent few e+e− storage ring colliders, it has been shown that the lattice nonlinearity may be important to the luminosity performance. In this paper, we'll try to review the related story in DAΦNE, and its upgrade with crab waist scheme, KEKB, BEPCII, and Super-KEKB.

 


 



THAMH3
Nonlinear Effects in the TTX-LESR
99


 

H.S. Xu, W.-H. Huang, C.-X. Tang
                       TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

We are designing a Laser Electron Storage Ring (LESR) for Tsinghua Thomson scattering X-ray source (TTX). A very compact LESR is designed to increase the average flux of the generated X-ray photons through the way of increasing the repetition frequency of scattering. Considering to reduce the lengths and the number of the magnets is necessary in designing a small ring. However, we find that the nonlinear effects of dipole field become significant when the bending radii of the dipole magnets are small. In this paper, we first present the baseline design of the LESR for TTX. Both analytical analysis and simulation are carried out to study the particles' behavior around the third-order systematic resonance line 3νx = 4. The analytical results of the resonance strengths are found to agree well with results from numerical particle tracking.

 


 



THAMH4
Coupling Impedance Measurements of Extraction Kicker in CSNS/RCS
102


 

Y.D. Liu, L. Huang, S. Wang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: Supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China(11275221,11175193)
China Spallation Neutron Source (CSNS) is a high intensity proton accelerator based facility. Its accelerator complex includes two main parts: an H− linac and a Rapid Cycling Synchrotron (RCS). The RCS accumulates the 80MeV proton beam, and accelerates it to 1.6GeV, with a repetition rate of 25Hz. The 1.6GeV beam is fast extracted for striking the neutron target with average beam power of 100kW. Based on the summarized impedance estimation for various kinds of vacuum components in RCS, the beam coupling impedance of the extraction kicker must be controlled. An experimental platform has been set up to study impedance of extraction kicker in IHEP. With the measurement system, the longitudinal and transverse impedance of extraction kicker were measured with coaxial-wire and dual-wire methods, respectively.

 


 



THAMH5
Design and Commissioning of a CW Heavy Ion RFQ Accelerator
106


 

K. Zhu, Z.Y. Guo, G. Liu, Y.R. Lu, Z. Wang, X.Q. Yan
                       PKU, Beijing, People's Republic of China
H. Du, Y. He, X. Yin, Y.J. Yuan, X.H. Zhang
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China

 


 

A CW RFQ for heavy ions is designed as the new injector for Separated Sector Cyclotron(SSC) at Institute of Modern Physics, Lanzhou, China. Now the RFQ have been installed in the main hall and the beam commissioning has been done. This paper will introduce the design consideration of the beam dynamics, the HF structure and the cooling structure design, measurement of the cold model, high power test of RFQ and the beam commissioning result.

 


 



THAMH6
Introduction of HIAF Project
 


 

J.C. Yang
                       IMP, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China

 


 

HIAF ( High Intensity heavy ion Accelerator Facility ) is a new accelerator facility to be built in the next ten years in China. The HIAF project aims to expand nuclear and related researches into presently unreachable region and give scientists possibilities to conduct cutting-edge researches. The main scientific motivation of HIAF phase includes the researches such as high energy density (HED) matter physics, the effective strong interaction binding atomic nuclide and the creation of the trans-iron elements in universe. The accelerator complex of the HIAF consists of a 25MeV/u high current superconducting ion linac (iLinac), a 34 Tm booster ring (BRing) for phase painting beam accumulation supported by electron cooling and beam acceleration, a 43 Tm high energy storage ring for beam stacking and beam compression (CRing)，and a high precision spectrometer ring (SRing) both for internal target experiments and beam quality improvement through cooling. The unique features of HIAF are high current pulsed injection beams from the iLinac and high intensity heavy ion beams with ultra-short bunch from the CRing. The cooled rare isotope beams also will be prepared through PF method.

 


 



THAMH7
Design of a Compact Proton Synchrotron for Radiation Effects Simulation
 


 

G.R. Li
                       TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

A compact design of low energy proton synchrotron is proposed. This design is based on 'missing dipole' cell, which shows a great simplicity and convenient in this kind of application. As we would like to utilize slow extraction technology, the alignment of extraction elements is discussed. In each cycle，this machine would accelerate 2·1011 protons up to 230MeV. To accomplish this goal, we discuss the basic physical problems about acceleration and space charge effects.

 


 




