













SAP2014 - Table of Session: WEAMH (Wednesday Morning Oral Session)


WEAMH —  Wednesday Morning Oral Session   (13-Aug-14   09:00—11:55)



Paper
Title
Page



WEAMH1
The Commissioning Plan and Preparation for CSNS Accelerators
1


 

S. Wang
                       IHEP, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

The China Spallation Neutron Source (CSNS) accelerator consists of an 80MeV H− lianc and an 1.6GeV proton rapid cycling synchrotron, and it provide 100kW beam to the neutron target. At present, the most of the element of accelerator is under mass production and test. The installation and beam commissioning will be started from Ion Source, and done section by section. To make the beam commissioning smoothly and successfully, many preparation works on both accelerator physics and hardware have been doing. In this paper, the summary on the preparation work for beam commissioning is given, including the commissioning schedule, detailed commissioning plan, the development of the commissioning software, and etc.

 


 



WEAMH3
Commissioning Status of Hefei Light Source
4


 

W. Li
                       USTC/NSRL, Hefei, Anhui, People's Republic of China

 


 

Under the support of Chinese Academy of Science and University of Science and Technology of China, the upgrade project of Hefei Light Source is carried out in National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory. The performance of HLS, whose emittance is about 38nm-rad and number of Insertion Device is 5, would be better than before. The commissioning of HLS was began at Jan. 2014 and finished at Jun.2014. The commissioning procedure, including injector linac and storage ring was introduced in this paper.

 


 



WEAMH4
Comparison of the High Gain FEL and the Low Gain FEL
 


 

Q.K. Jia
                       USTC/NSRL, Hefei, Anhui, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: the Major State Basic Research Development Programme of China, No. 2011CB808301 the National Nature Science Foundation of China, No. 11375199
The high gain FEL and the low gain FEL are compared. Their differences in the features and the key issues, as well as the main difficult points and the requirements are analysed. The transition of the gain from low to high are also analyzed.

 


 



WEAMH5
Review of Electron Beam Manipulation by using Corrugated Device for Light Sources
9


 

H.X. Deng, M. Zhang
                       SINAP, Shanghai, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: This work was partially supported by the Major State Basic Research Development Program of China (2011CB808300) and the National Natural Science Foundation of China (11175240, 11205234 and 11322550).
Specifically designed corrugated structures hold promising prospects as beam linearizer, beam de-chirper and beam stabilizer for a high brightness LINAC, and thus enhance the FEL performance significantly. So far, several electron beam test experiments of corrugated structure were carried out on LINACs at PAL and BNL. More recently, a passive control experiment of FEL spectrum, by using a pair of corrugated planes at SDUV-FEL is proposed, which is expected as the first real FEL experimental demonstration of such wakefield structure applications. The physical design, numerical simulations, the vacuum chamber manufacture and the experiment results are described in this paper.

 


 



WEAMH6
Studies on Factors Affecting the Life-Time of High Average Current GaAs Photocathode
12


 

D. Wu, K. Li, M. Li, Q. Pan, H. Wang, D.X. Xiao, R.J. Yang, X. Yang
                       CAEP/IAE, Mianyang, Sichuan, People's Republic of China

 


 

The negative electron affinity (NEA) GaAs photocathode has been demonstrated as an important electron source for high average current accelerators, such as the free electron lasers (FELs) based on energy recovery linacs (ERLs). To increase the life-time of NEA-GaAs, some factors are studied in this paper, such as the vacuum pressure around the cathode, the temperature of the cathode surface and the ion back-bombardment inside DC gun. With these studies, some strategies are applied on the photocathode injector of FEL-THz facility in China Academy of Engineering Physics (CAEP). The cathode working life-time has been improved at least two orders of magnitude.

 


 




