













SAP2014 - Table of Session: WEPMH (Wednesday Afternoon Oral Session)


WEPMH —  Wednesday Afternoon Oral Session   (13-Aug-14   14:00—16:35)



Paper
Title
Page



WEPMH1
New Development of the High Power Proton Cyclotrons at CIAE
16


 

J.J. Yang, Y.L. Lv, T.J. Zhang
                       CIAE, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: Supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China(No.11375273)
The high power proton beam has wide application potentials in future clean nuclear energy system, neutron physics study, RIB production and particle physics research. Cyclotrons are intrinsic in continuous-wave beam mode, which has the characteristics of high efficient power conversion rate, compact structure and relatively low construction cost. CIAE is dedicated to developing high power proton cyclotron in China for a long time. In this talk, the recent construction progress of the 100MeV cyclotron will be presented in detail. The commissioning of this cyclotron is in progress and we got the first beam on July 4, 2014. In additions, this talk also introduces the progress of the pre-study of a high power 800 MeV separate-sector ring cyclotron, which is proposed to provide high power proton beam for applications neutron and neutrino physics, proton radiography and nuclear data measurement.

 


 



WEPMH2
The Focusing Properties of Both Normal and Superconducting Low Energy CW Proton Linacs
20


 

Z. Li
                       SCU, Chengdu, People's Republic of China

 


 

The continue wave (CW) high current proton linac has wide applications as the front end of the high power proton machines. The low energy part is the most difficult one and there is no widely accepted solution yet. Both normal conducting and superconducting acceleration structures are thought to be the possible solutions. Although the characteristics of normal conducting structures and superconducting ones are quite different, such as acceleration voltage, maximum electric field and so on, we found the focusing properties of the lattice composed by these two acceleration structures are quite similar for different reasons. The advantages and disadvantages of lattices composed of both the normal conducting and superconducting structures are analysed from the beam dynamics point of view, and their constraints on beam main parameters are discussed.

 


 



WEPMH3
Design Study of a 250MeV Superconducting Isochronous Cyclotron for Proton Therapy
23


 

B. Qin, M. Fan, D. Li, K.F. Liu, P. Tan, J. Yang
                       HUST, Wuhan, People's Republic of China
Y.F. Bi, Y. Ren
                       ASIPP, Hefei, People's Republic of China
L. Cao, W. Chen, X. Liu
                       Huazhong University of Science and Technology, State Key Laboratory of Advanced Electromagnetic Engineering and Technology,, Hubei, People's Republic of China
K. Fan
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by National Nature Science Foundation of China (11375068), and Hubei 2011 Project (Hubei Collaborative Innovation Center of Non-power Nuclear Technology.
Proton therapy is recognized as the most effective radiation therapy method for cancers with very high cure rate of 80\%. Superconducting cyclotron becomes an optimum choice for delivering high quality proton beam due to its compactness, low power consuming and high stability. A 250MeV/500nA isochronous superconducting cyclotron was proposed in HUST, and the design and technical considerations on the spiral magnet, the tune optimization, and the beam extraction in high field will be introduces.

 


 



WEPMH4
Recent Progress on High Quality Electron Beam Generation through Plasma Based Acceleration at Tsinghua University
 


 

W. Lu, H.B. Chen, Y.-C. Du, J.F. Hua, W.-H. Huang, F. Li, C.H. Pai, J. Shi, C.-X. Tang, Y. Wan, Y.P. Wu, X.L. Xu, L.X. Yan, C.J. Zhang
                       TUB, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

Recent progress on plasma based acceleration at Tsinghua University will be presented. On the theory and simulation part, several ideas on how to obtain high quality electron beams with extremely high brightness through wakefield acceleration will be discussed in details,including two recently published works based on ionization injection method(PRL 111,015003,2013; PRL 112,035003,2014); On the experiment part, our recent results of high quality 20-30MeV electron beams with very low energy spread, with minimal absolute energy spread of 0.18MeV RMS and relative energy spread 0.8% RMS, will be presented. The latest results on the generation of 300-430MeV high quality electron beams (2-5% energy spread) using a 50TW laser at NCU will also be discussed.

 


 



WEPMH5
Accelerator Based Ultrafast Electron Diffraction and Microscopy at SJTU
26


 

D. Xiang
                       Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under contract No. 11327902.
Historically particle accelerators are instrumental for high energy physics (accelerator based colliders) and photon science (accelerator based synchrotron light sources and free electron lasers). Now there is growing interest in applying accelerator technology to solve the grand challenge in probing matter at ultrafast temporal and ultrasmall spatial scales. In this paper we discuss how one can use MeV electrons produced in accelerators (e.g. photocathode rf guns) to study ultrafast dynamics at atomic scale through ultrafast electron diffraction and microscopy techniques. We will also describe the current status of ENTROPY (cENter for ulTRafast diffractiOn and microscoPY) at Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU). This center is expected to provide access to new sciences by producing kHz rep-rate ultrafast and ultrabright electron beams that will give researchers unparalleled power and precision in examining the fundamental nature of matter.

 


 




