













SRF2013 - Table of Session: FRIOC (New cavity Design: Accelerating structures II)


FRIOC —  New cavity Design: Accelerating structures II   (27-Sep-13   10:45—11:25)
Chair: D. Jeon, IBS, Daejeon, Republic of Korea


Paper
Title
Page



FRIOC01
Design of the 352 MHz, Beta 0.50, Double-Spoke Cavity for ESS
1212


 

P. Duchesne, S. Bousson, S. Brault, P. Duthil, G. Olry, D. Reynet
                       IPN, Orsay, France
S. Molloy
                       ESS, Lund, Sweden

 


 

The ESS proton accelerator contains a superconducting sector consisting in three families of superconducting radiofrequency (SRF) bulk niobium cavities, operating at a nominal temperature of 2K: a family of Spoke cavities for the medium energy section followed by two families of elliptical cavities for higher energies. The superconducting Spoke section, having a length of 58.6m, consists of 14 cryomodules, each of them housing two 352.2 MHz β=0.50 Double-Spoke Resonators (DSR). The operating accelerating field is 8MV/m. The choice of the Spoke technology is guided by the high performances of such structures. Benefitting from 10 years of extensive R&D experience carried out at IPNO, the electromagnetic design studies came out with a solution that fulfills requirements of beam dynamics analysis and manufacturing considerations. Pursuing the same objective, the mechanical design of the cavity and its helium vessel were optimized by performing intensive coupled RF-mechanical simulations. We propose to present a review of the RF and mechanical design studies of the Spoke cavity. We will conclude with the integration of the Spoke cavity with its ancillaries inside the cryomodule.

 






Slides FRIOC01 [6.321 MB]
            
 


 



FRIOC02
ESS Elliptical Cavities and Cryomodules
1218


 

G. Devanz, P. Bosland, M. Desmons, P. Hardy, F. Leseigneur, M. Luong, F. Peauger, J. Plouin, D. Roudier
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France
N. Bazin
                       CEA/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
G. Costanza
                       Lund University, Lund, Sweden
G. Olivier
                       IPN, Orsay, France

 


 

The accelerator of the European Spallation Source (ESS) is a 5 MW proton linac to be built in Lund Sweden. Its superconducting section is composed of 3 cavity families: double spoke resonators, medium beta and high beta elliptical multicell cavities. This paper presents the electromagnetic and mechanical design of the 704.42 MHz elliptical cavities. Both elliptical famillies are housed in 4-cavity cryomodules which share a common design and set of components which will be described here.

 






Slides FRIOC02 [3.475 MB]
            
 


 




