













SRF2013 - Table of Session: THIOA (Technical R&D - Mass production)


THIOA —  Technical R&D - Mass production   (26-Sep-13   08:00—09:35)
Chair: C.M. Ginsburg, Fermilab, Batavia, USA


Paper
Title
Page



THIOA01
Infrastructure, Methods and Test Results for the Testing of 800 Series Cavities for the European XFEL
812


 

D. Reschke
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany

 


 

Funding: The research leading to these results has received funding from the European Union Seventh Framework Programme (FP7/2007-2013) under grant agreement no 283745 (CRISP).
The main linac of the European XFEL will consist of 100 accelerator modules, i.e. 800 superconducting accelerator cavities operated at a design gradient of 23.6 MV/m. The fabrication and surface preparation of the cavities in industry is in full swing. This talk describes the infrastructure and procedures of the vertical acceptance test in the "Accelerator Module Test Facility AMTF" at DESY. The present status of the test results is given.

 






Slides THIOA01 [1.998 MB]
            
 


 



THIOA02
The Challenge to Assemble 100 Cryomodules for the European E-XFEL
816


 

C. Madec
                       CEA, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
S. Berry, J.-P. Charrier, M. Fontaine, Y. Gasser, O. Napoly, C.S. Simon, T.V. Vacher, B. Visentin
                       CEA/DSM/IRFU, France
P. Charon, C. Cloué, G. Monnereau, J.L. Perrin, D. Roudier, Y. Sauce, T. Trublet
                       CEA/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France

 


 

As In-Kind contributor to the E-XFEL project, CEA is committed to the integration on the Saclay site of the 100 cryomodules (CM) of the superconducting linac as well as to the procurement of miscellaneous parts including 31 cold beam position monitors (BPM) of the re-entrant type. The assembly infrastructure has been renovated from the previous Saturne Synchrotron Laboratory facility: it includes a 200 m2 clean room complex with 112 m2 under ISO4, 1325 m2 of assembly platforms and 400 m2 of storage area. In parallel, CEA has conducted industrial studies and three cryomodule assembly prototyping both aiming at preparing the industrial file, the quality management system and the commissioning of the assembly plant, tooling and control equipment. In 2012, the contract of the integration has been awarded to ALSYOM. The first pre-series modules have been assembled and are being tested at DESY. This paper will present the challenges of the module integration from the preparation phase to the industrial phase.

 






Slides THIOA02 [17.641 MB]
            
 


 



THIOA03
Cavity Fabrication Study in CFF at KEK
821


 

M. Yamanaka, Y. Ajima, H. Inoue, T. Kubo, T. Saeki, Y. Watanabe, S. Yamaguchi
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan

 


 

The construction of new facility for the fabrication of superconducting RF cavity at KEK was completed in 2011. It is equipped with the following machines; an electron-beam welding (EBW) machine, a servo press machine and a CNC vertical lathe. A chemical etching apparatus is also equipped. The study on the fabrication of 9-cell cavity for International Linear Collier (ILC) has been started from 2009 using this facility. The study is focusing on the cost reduction with keeping high performance of cavity, and the goal is the establishment of mass-production procedure for ILC.

 






Slides THIOA03 [7.823 MB]
            
 


 



THIOA04
Low-Beta Cryomodule Design Optimized for Large-Scale Linac Installations
825


 

S.J. Miller, B. Bird, N.K. Bultman, F. Casagrande, A.D. Fox, M.J. Johnson, M. Leitner, T. Nellis, J.P. Ozelis, X. Rao, R.J. Rose, M. Shuptar, K. Witgen, Y. Xu
                       FRIB, East Lansing, Michigan, USA

 


 

Funding: This material is based upon work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science under Cooperative Agreement DE-SC0000661.
This paper will present most recent design developments at FRIB to optimize low-beta cryomodules for large-scale linac installations. FRIB, which requires the fabrication of 53 cryomodules, has to emphasize ease of assembly and alignment plus low cost. This paper will present experimental results of a novel kinematic rail support system which significantly eases cryomodule assembly. Design choices for mass-production are presented. Results of vibration calculations and measurements on a FRIB prototype cryomodule will be reported.

 






Slides THIOA04 [10.842 MB]
            
 


 



THIOA05
Optimization of SRF Linacs
830


 

T. Powers
                       JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA

 


 

Funding: Authored by Jefferson Science Associates, LLC under U.S. DOE Contract No. DE-AC05-06OR23177. The U.S.
This work describes preliminary results of a new software tool that allows one to vary parameters and understand the effects on the optimized costs of construction plus 10 year operations of an SRF linac, the associated cryogenic facility, and controls, where operations includes the cost of the electrical utilities but not the labor or other costs. It derives from collaborative work done with staff from Accelerator Science and Technology Centre, Daresbury, UK several years ago while they were in the process of developing a conceptual design for the New Light Source project. The initial goal was to convert a spread sheet format to a graphical interface to allow the ability to sweep different parameter sets. The tools also allow one to compare the cost of the different facets of the machine design and operations so as to better understand the tradeoffs. More recent additions to the software include the ability to save and restore input parameters as well as to adjust the Qo versus E parameters in order to explore the potential costs savings associated with doing so.

 






Slides THIOA05 [2.712 MB]
            
 


 




