













SRF2015 - Table of Session: WEA2A (Cavities I)


WEA2A —  Cavities I   (16-Sep-15   09:20—10:00)
Chair: V. Palmieri, INFN/LNL, Legnaro (PD), Italy


Paper
Title
Page



WEA2A01
High-Velocity Spoke Cavities
943


 

C.S. Hopper
                       ODU, Norfolk, Virginia, USA
H. Park
                       JLab, Newport News, Virginia, USA

 


 

There are several current and recent projects which explore the feasibility of spoke-loaded cavities operating in the high-velocity region. Spoke cavities have a large number of geometric parameters which often influence multiple rf properties. Fabricating, handling, and processing these cavities presents some unique challenges, not unlike other TEM-class structures. This paper will summarize the current efforts toward the design, fabrication, and testing of spoke cavities with optimum beta greater than 0.8.

 






Slides WEA2A01 [1.029 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper to 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text, 
              ※ RIS/RefMan, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 



WEA2A02
High Gradient Testing of the Five-Cell Superconducting RF Module With a PBG Coupler Cell
948


 

S. Arsenyev
                       MIT/PSFC, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA
C.H. Boulware, T.L. Grimm, A. Rogacki
                       Niowave, Inc., Lansing, Michigan, USA
W.B. Haynes, D.Y. Shchegolkov, E.I. Simakov, T. Tajima
                       LANL, Los Alamos, New Mexico, USA

 


 

Funding: DOE Office of Science/Office of High Energy Physics
Superconducting radio-frequency (SRF) accelerating structures allow high-gradient operation in continuous-wave mode. These machines can be limited by beam-breakup instability at high currents because higher-order modes with very high Q factors are easily excited by the beam. Photonic band gap (PBG) structures provide a way to strongly damp higher-order modes without compromising the performance of the structure in the fundamental mode. We first address the design of the structure and issues that arise from incorporating a complex PBG cell into an SRF module. In particular, the module was tuned to have uneven accelerating gradient profile in order to provide equal peak surface magnetic field in every cell. We then cover the fabrication steps and surface treatment of the five-cell niobium structure and report results of the high gradient tests at temperatures of 4 K and 2 K.

 






Slides WEA2A02 [7.023 MB]
        
 


Export •
reference for this paper to 
              ※ BibTeX, 
              ※ LaTeX, 
              ※ Text, 
              ※ RIS/RefMan, 
              ※ EndNote (xml)

 


 




