













SRF2013 - Table of Session: WEIOA (Basic R&D New materials - Thin film deposition techniques)


WEIOA —  Basic R&D New materials - Thin film deposition techniques   (25-Sep-13   08:00—09:35)
Chair: V. Palmieri, INFN/LNL, Legnaro (PD), Italy


Paper
Title
Page



WEIOA01
HiPIMS: a New Generation of Film Deposition Techniques for SRF Applications
754


 

A-M. Valente-Feliciano
                       JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA

 


 

Funding: Authored by Jefferson Science Associates, LLC under U.S. DOE Contract No. DE-AC05-06OR23177.
Over the years, Nb/Cu technology, despite its shortcomings due to the commonly used magnetron sputtering, has positioned itself as an alternative route for the future of accelerator superconducting structures. Avenues for the production of thin films tailored for Superconducting RF (SRF) applications are showing promise with recent developments in ionized PVD coating techniques, i.e. vacuum deposition techniques using energetic ions. Among these techniques, High power impulse magnetron sputtering (HiPIMS) is a promising emerging technique which combines magnetron sputtering with a pulsed power approach. This contribution describes the benefits of energetic condensation for SRF films and the characteristics of the HiPIMS technology. It describes the on-going efforts pursued in different institutions to exploit the potential of this technology to produce bulk-like Nb films and go beyond Nb performance with the development of film systems, based on other superconducting materials and multilayer structures.

 






Slides WEIOA01 [12.446 MB]
            
 


 



WEIOA02
Energetic Condensation Growth of Niobium Films
761


 

M. Krishnan, I. Irfan
                       AASC, San Leandro, California, USA

 


 

Funding: The AASC research is supported by the US Department of Energy via several SBIR research grants
Energetic Condensation refers to thinfilm growth on a surface using ~100eV ions, versus lower energy deposition using sputtering (~1-10eV with no substrate bias) or still lower energy thermal evaporation. The relatively high incident energy of energetic condensation creates defects and vacancies within the first few atomic layers and enables diffusion to lower free-energy sites in the lattice. Shallow defects migrate to the heated surface and are annihilated, leading to low-defect crystal growth. It has been shown [1] that the purer the film, the closer are its superconducting parameters to those of the bulk metal. Use of cathodic arc plasmas was proposed in 2000 by Langner [TESLA Rep. 2000-15, Ed. D. Proch, DESY 2000], followed by detailed development of the process [2]. AASC picked up from the European Community-Research Infrastructure Activity and has demonstrated very high RRR=541 in Nb films grown on crystal substrates [3]. Ongoing work to coat 1.3GHz copper cavities using cathodic arc plasmas, as well as growth of higher temperature films such as NbTiN, Nb3Sn and MgB2 are described. A related technique for energetic condensation using an ECR plasma source is also described.
1. C. Benvenuti et al, IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond. 9 (1999) 900  2. R. Russo et al, Supercond. Sci. Technol. 18 (2005) L41-L44 3. M. Krishnan et al, Supercond. Sci. Technol. 24, 115002 (2011)

 






Slides WEIOA02 [14.616 MB]
            
 


 



WEIOA03
Nb Sputtered Quarter Wave Resonators for the HIE-ISOLDE
767


 

W. Venturini Delsolaro, S. Calatroni, A. D'Elia, B. Delaup, N.M. Jecklin, Y. Kadi, P. Maesen, I. Mondino, A. Sublet, M. Therasse
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
A. D'Elia
                       UMAN, Manchester, United Kingdom
D.A. Franco Lespinasse, G. Keppel, V. Palmieri, S. Stark
                       INFN/LNL, Legnaro (PD), Italy

 


 

The HIE-ISOLDE superconducting linac will be based on quarter wave resonators (QWRs), made by Niobium sputtering on Copper. The operating frequency at 4.5 K is 101.28 MHz and the required performance for the high beta cavity is 6 MV/m accelerating field for 10 W maximum power dissipation. These challenging specifications were recently met at CERN at the end of a vigorous development program. The paper reports on the progress of the cavity RF performance with the evolution of the sputtering process; it equally illustrates the parallel R&D which is ongoing at CERN and at INFN in the quest for even higher performances.

 






Slides WEIOA03 [14.564 MB]
            
 


 



WEIOA04
Nb3Sn for SRF Application
773


 

M. Liepe, S. Posen
                       Cornell University (CLASSE), Cornell Laboratory for Accelerator-Based Sciences and Education, Ithaca, New York, USA

 


 

The superconductor Nb3Sn is a promising alternative to standard niobium for SRF applications for two reasons: Its larger superconducting energy gap results in significantly lower BCS surface resistance at typical SRF operating temperatures. Additionally, theoretical predictions suggest that the maximum operating field of Nb3Sn cavities could be twice that of niobium cavities. Early work on a small number of Nb3Sn coated cavities indeed showed 2K to 4.2K quality factors well above what is achievable with niobium, though at accelerating fields below ~10 MV/m only. After many years of worldwide inactivity, Cornell has taken the lead and initiated a new R&D program on Nb3Sn to explore its full potential for SRF applications. New facilities for coating cavities with Nb3Sn have been set up at Cornell, and 1.3 GHz single cell cavities have been coated and tested. This talk presents the Cornell Nb3Sn program, discusses first promising results obtained, and also gives an overview of other Nb3Sn SRF work worldwide.

 






Slides WEIOA04 [3.854 MB]
            
 


 




