













SRF2013 - Table of Session: MOIOA (SRF Challenges for Recent and New Projects I)


MOIOA —  SRF Challenges for Recent and New Projects I   (23-Sep-13   08:15—10:15)
Chair: C.E. Reece, JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA


Paper
Title
Page



MOIOA01
The FRIB Project at MSU
1


 

M. Leitner, B. Bird, F. Casagrande, S. Chouhan, C. Compton, J.L. Crisp, K. Elliott, A. Facco, A.D. Fox, M. Hodek, M.J. Johnson, G. Kiupel, I.M. Malloch, D. Miller, S.J. Miller, D. Morris, D. Norton, R. Oweiss, J.P. Ozelis, J. Popielarski, L. Popielarski, A.P. Rauch, R.J. Rose, K. Saito, M. Shuptar, N.R. Usher, G.J. Velianoff, D.R. Victory, J. Wei, J. Whitaker, K. Witgen, T. Xu, Y. Xu, O. Yair, S. Zhao
                       FRIB, East Lansing, USA

 


 

Funding: This material is based upon work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science under Cooperative Agreement DE-SC0000661.
The Facility for Rare Isotope Beams (FRIB) is ready to start construction. The facility will utilize a high-intensity, heavy-ion driver linac to provide stable ion beams from protons to uranium up to energies of >200 MeV/u and at a beam power of up to 400 kW. The superconducting cw linac consists of 330 individual low-beta (β = 0.041, 0.085, 0.29, and 0.53 at 80.5 MHz and 322 MHz) cavities in 49 cryomodules operating at 2 K. This paper discusses the current development status of the project with emphasis on the linac SRF acquisition. SRF coldmass and cryomodule component designs are briefly summarized. A SRF production facility, currently under construction, is described.

 






Slides MOIOA01 [9.804 MB]
            
 


 



MOIOA02
Status and Challenges of Spiral2 SRF Linac
11


 

R. Ferdinand, P.-E. Bernaudin, M. Di Giacomo
                       GANIL, Caen, France
P. Bosland
                       CEA/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
Y. Gómez Martínez
                       LPSC, Grenoble Cedex, France
G. Olry
                       IPN, Orsay, France

 


 

GANIL is presently extending its experimental facility with the new SPIRAL2 project. It is based on a multi-beam Superconducting Linac Driver delivering 5 mA deuterons up to 40 MeV and 1 mA heavy ions up to 14.5 MeV/u. Several domains of research in nuclear physics at the limits of stability will be covered by this new accelerator. SPIRAL2 construction has two phases. SPIRAL2 phase 1 includes the superconducting accelerator driver, and the construction of the two research areas where the accelerated protons and deuterons will generate extremely intense neutron beams for fundamental physics experiments and numerous applications. SPIRAL2 will also accelerate stable heavy ion beams of very high intensity. The phase2 includes the RIB production building and links to the existing GANIL accelerator complex for RIB post acceleration. The Superconducting Linac incorporates many innovative developments of the Quarter-Wave resonators and their associated cryogenic and RF systems. The installation of the SPIRAL2 accelerator at GANIL has started. Status of the Spiral 2 SRF linac will be presented, focusing on the various SRF challenges met by this project and how/what solutions were chosen.
* on behalf of the SPIRAL2 project and superconducting teams

 






Slides MOIOA02 [87.841 MB]
            
 


 



MOIOA03
The Challenge and Realization of the Cavity Production and Treatment in Industry for the European XFEL
18


 

W. Singer, J. Iversen, A. Matheisen, H. Weise
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany
P. Michelato
                       INFN/LASA, Segrate (MI), Italy

 


 

The main effort in production of 1.3 GHz cavities for the EXFEL was dedicated to transfer the superconducting technology to the industry. These know how transfer is executed by DESY and INFN/LASA team. The preparation phase based on prototype cavities covered: qualification of potential vendors for material and cavity fabrication; work out recipe and strategy for qualification of the infrastructure for cavity surface treatment at industry; definition of the quality management strategy, documentation and electronically data exchange. Production of 800 series cavities on the principle “build to print” is contracted to companies Research Instruments and Ettore Zanon. High purity niobium and NbTi for resonators provides DESY. The principles of the material and cavities production in conformity with European Pressure Equipment Directive are developed together with the notified body. New or upgraded infrastructure has been established at both companies. The first several tens of series cavities have been produced and treated. Most of the cavities handed over to DESY up to now fulfill immediately the EXFEL specifications. The cavity production for EXFEL will be finished mid of 2015.

 






Slides MOIOA03 [7.394 MB]
            
 


 



MOIOA04
SRF Challenges for Energy Recovery Linacs
24


 

A. Burrill
                       HZB, Berlin, Germany

 


 

Many of the challenges associated with operating a SRF ERL are independent of the choice of operating frequency, beam energy, and overall purpose of the machine. Worldwide there are an increasing number of ERLs in various stages of development and operation which are facing a number of similar challenges and often solving them in very different ways. In this talk I will seek to summarize the main challenges the community as a whole faces, address how different laboratories are working to solve these problems, and seek to identify areas of overlap where the community can work together to solve some of these common problems.

 






Slides MOIOA04 [5.213 MB]
            
 


 



MOIOA05
SRF in Heavy Ions Projects
30


 

D. Jeon
                       IBS, Daejeon, Republic of Korea

 


 

SRF technologies are widely applied to heavy ion accelerator projects in the world such as the RAON, C-ADS, HIAF, FRIB, SPIRAL2, ISAC-II, HIE-ISOLDE etc. In this talk, status report, design choices and SRF challenges met in heavy ion machines are presented.

 






Slides MOIOA05 [10.228 MB]
            
 


 




