













SRF2013 - Table of Session: FRIOA (New cavity Design: Deflecting and Other Structures)


FRIOA —  New cavity Design: Deflecting and Other Structures   (27-Sep-13   08:00—09:15)
Chair: A. Facco, INFN/LNL, Legnaro (PD), Italy


Paper
Title
Page



FRIOA01
LHC Crab Cavity .Progress and Outlook
1161


 

R. Calaga, E. Jensen
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland

 


 

Three novel superconducting RF crab cavity designs proposed for the LHC luminosity upgrade have rapidly progressed. First Niobium prototypes are reaching close to the design performance and beyond. The highlights of the RF test results from the prototypes along with design modifications for initial beam tests in the SPS are presented. The status of the cryomodule development, integration into the SPS and the beam tests in view of validating the crab cavity system for LHC upgrade are addressed.

 






Slides FRIOA01 [12.063 MB]
            
 


 



FRIOA02
Developing Quarter Wave SRF Cavities for Hadron Colliders
1165


 

Q. Wu
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA

 


 

Funding: This work was supported by Brookhaven Science Associates, LLC under Contract No. DE-AC02-98CH10886 with LARP and the U.S. DOE
Quarter Wave Resonators (QWRs) have been widely used in low-beta accelerators around the world because of their compact size at low frequency. Recently, application of QWRs is carrying over into hadron colliders aiming at various goals. A 56 MHz superconducting QWR is under testing at Brookhaven National Lab (BNL). It will be installed in the Relativistic Hadron Ion Collider (RHIC) as a storage cavity, which would be the first QWR operating in a high energy storage ring. A Compact crab cavity using QWR concept is another active SRF project at BNL. This crab cavity is a candidate for the Large Hadron Collider HiLumi upgrade, as well as for the future electron-ion collider (eRHIC). We report the design, fabrication, and testing results for the QWRs for hadron colliders under development at BNL.

 






Slides FRIOA02 [10.542 MB]
            
 


 



FRIOA03
Fabrication and Testing of Deflecting Cavities for APS
1170


 

J.D. Mammosser
                       JLab, Newport News, Virginia, USA
P. Dhakal, J. Henry, R.A. Rimmer, H. Wang, K.M. Wilson
                       JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA
J.F. Fuerst, J.P. Holzbauer, J.S. Kerby, A. Nassiri, G.J. Waldschmidt, G. Wu, Y. Yang
                       ANL, Argonne, USA
F. He
                       PKU, Beijing, People's Republic of China
Z. Li
                       SLAC, Menlo Park, California, USA

 


 

Abstract Jefferson Lab in Newport News, Virginia, in collaboration with Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Il, has fabricated and tested three production, 2.815 GHz crab cavities for Argonne’s Short-Pulse X-ray project. These cavities are unique in that the cavity and waveguides were milled from bulk large grain niobium ingot material directly from 3D CAD files. No forming of sub components was used with the exception of the beam-pipes. The cavity and helium vessel design along with the RF performance requirements makes this project extremely challenging for fabrication. Production challenges and fabrication techniques as well as testing results will be discussed in this paper.

 






Slides FRIOA03 [22.677 MB]
            
 


 



FRIOA04
Superconducting RF-Dipole Deflecting and Crabbing Cavities
1176


 

S.U. De Silva, J.R. Delayen
                       ODU, Norfolk, Virginia, USA

 


 

Recent interests in designing compact deflecting and crabbing structures for future accelerators and colliders have initiated the development of novel rf structures. The superconducting rf-dipole cavity is one of the first compact designs with attractive properties such as higher gradients, higher shunt impedance, the absence of lower order modes and widely separated higher order modes. Two rf-dipole designs of 400 MHz and 499 MHz have been designed, fabricated and tested as proof-of-principle designs of compact deflecting and crabbing cavities for the LHC high luminosity upgrade and Jefferson Lab 12 GeV upgrade. The first rf tests have been performed on the rf-dipole geometries at 4.2 K and 2.0 K in a vertical test assembly with excellent results. The cavities have achieved high gradients with high intrinsic quality factors, and multipacting levels were easily processed.

 






Slides FRIOA04 [6.218 MB]
            
 


 




