













SRF2013 - Table of Session: WEIOC (Basic R&D New materials - Multilayers, MgB2 - II)


WEIOC —  Basic R&D New materials - Multilayers, MgB2 - II   (25-Sep-13   10:45—12:05)
Chair: J. Knobloch, HZB, Berlin, Germany


Paper
Title
Page



WEIOC01
High Resolution Surface Resistance Studies
785


 

S. Aull, S. Döbert, T. Junginger
                       CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
S. Aull, J. Knobloch
                       University of Siegen, Siegen, Germany
J. Knobloch
                       HZB, Berlin, Germany

 


 

Funding: Work supported by the German Doctoral Students program of the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF).
The attempt to reach quality factors beyond 1011 and pushing the accelerating gradients of SRF cavities to the theoretical limit, the treatment depending loss mechanisms in niobium need better understanding. CERNs Quadrupole Resonator enables sub-nΩ-resolution measurements of the surface resistance. The available parameters cover resonant modes at 400, 800 and 1200 MHz, any temperature up to 15 K and rf fields up to 60 mT. Recently the setup has been extended with a coil creating a dc magnetic field for trapped flux studies. Overall, much more information about the rf performance is accessible compared to regular cavity measurements. Since the samples are flat disks of 75 mm diameter geometric fabrication issues are simplified which makes the Quadrupole Resonator also the perfect tool to study alternative materials or new coating techniques. In this contribution in depth studies of a heat treated bulk niobium sample exploiting the complete parameter range of the setup are presented.

 






Slides WEIOC01 [2.724 MB]
            
 


 



WEIOC02
Multilayers Activities at Saclay / Orsay
789


 

C. B. Baumier, G. Martinet
                       IPN, Orsay, France
C.Z. Antoine
                       CEA/IRFU, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
F. F. Fortuna
                       CSNSM, ORSAY CAMPUS, France
J.C. Villegier
                       CEA/INAC, Grenoble Cedex 9, France

 


 

In the investigations on the high gradient SRF cavities, the superconducting multilayer is a promising alternative. The predictions show that an SIS (Superconductor/Isolator/Superconductor) nano-composite could improve the efficiency limited by the bulk Nb it-self used today for accelerating cavities. We start, at the IPNO lab in collaboration with the CSNSM lab (CNRS) and Irfu lab (CEA), an experimental study to test the screening effect on multilayer assemblies. Based on 3rd harmonic magnetometer and a TE011 SRF cavity, measurements of first critical magnetic field HC1 and surface resistance of samples have been performed. Along with these first results, we are starting the development of a MBE deposition. This set-up is devoted to optimise the best organisation of the multilayer to produce the model sample, and to find, in a close future, a realistic solution to apply this technique on an accelerating SRF cavity.
Labex P2IO funding

 






Slides WEIOC02 [3.035 MB]
            
 


 



WEIOC03
Atomic Layer Deposition of Thin Superconducting Films and Multilayers: Coupons and Cavity Tests
 


 

Th. Proslier, N. Groll, J. Klug, M.J. Pellin
                       ANL, Argonne, USA
G. Ciovati, P. Kneisel, A-M. Valente-Feliciano
                       JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA
A. Grassellino, A. Romanenko
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA
J. Zasadzinski
                       IIT, Chicago, Illinois, USA

 


 

Funding: DOE-office of Science, High Energy Physics.
I will present a summary of the work done over the last 2 years that encompasses both coupons study of thin superconducting films and multilayers and preliminary superconducting RF cavity tests coated by ALD. I will also present results of Nb onto Copper.

 






Slides WEIOC03 [25.554 MB]
            
 


 



WEIOC04
Theoretical Field Limits for Multi-Layer Superconductors
794


 

S. Posen, M. Liepe
                       Cornell University (CLASSE), Cornell Laboratory for Accelerator-Based Sciences and Education, Ithaca, New York, USA
G. Catelani
                       Forschungszentrum Jülich, Peter Gruenberg Institut (PGI-2), Jülich, Germany
J.P. Sethna
                       Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, USA
M.K. Transtrum
                       M.D.A.C.C., Houston, Texas, USA

 


 

With modern cavity preparation techniques, niobium SRF cavities reach surface magnetic fields very close to the fundamental limit of the superheating field of the material, and researchers are looking to alternative superconductors to sustain even higher fields. However, these materials may have an increased vulnerability to flux penetration at defects, even small ones, as a result of their short coherence lengths. A. Gurevich has proposed [1] a method of mitigating this vulnerability: coating a bulk superconducting cavity with a series of very thin insulating and superconducting films. In this work, we present a thorough mathematical description of the SIS thin films proposed by Gurevich in the language of the SRF community, to help researchers to optimize cavities made from alternative superconductors.
[1] A. Gurevich, Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 012511 (2006)

 






Slides WEIOC04 [4.116 MB]
            
 


 




