













SRF2013 - Table of Session: MOIOB (SRF Challenges for Recent and New Projects II)


MOIOB —  SRF Challenges for Recent and New Projects II   (23-Sep-13   10:45—12:10)
Chair: M.P. Kelly, ANL, Argonne, USA


Paper
Title
Page



MOIOB01
High Power Proton/Deuteron Accelerators
35


 

J.-L. Biarrotte
                       IPN, Orsay, France

 


 

High power proton and deuteron linear accelerators can give rise to a large variety of scientific applications, useful for both fundamental and applied research. Thanks to the on-going efficient development of the superconducting RF technology, more and more projects based on such machines have emerged during the last 2 decades. This paper will review these existing high power proton/deuteron accelerator facilities or projects, trying in particular to emphasize in each case the various specificities and challenges related to the SRF technology.

 






Slides MOIOB01 [4.474 MB]
            
 


 



MOIOB02
Towards a 100mA Superconducting RF Photoinjector for BERLinPro
42


 

A. Neumann, W. Anders, A. Burrill, A. Jankowiak, T. Kamps, J. Knobloch, O. Kugeler, P. Lauinger, A.N. Matveenko, M. Schmeißer, J. Völker
                       HZB, Berlin, Germany
G. Ciovati, P. Kneisel
                       JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA
R. Nietubyć
                       NCBJ, Świerk/Otwock, Poland
S.G. Schubert, J. Smedley
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA
J.K. Sekutowicz
                       DESY, Hamburg, Germany
V. Volkov
                       BINP SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia
I. Will
                       MBI, Berlin, Germany
E.N. Zaplatin
                       FZJ, Jülich, Germany

 


 

For BERLinPro, a 100 mA CW-driven SRF energy recovery linac demonstrator facility, HZB needs to develop a photo-injector superconducting cavity which delivers a at least 1mm*mr emittance beam at high average current. To address these challenges of producing a high peak brightness beam at high repetition rate, at first HZB tested a fully superconducting injector with a lead cathode*,followed now by the design of a SC cavity allowing operation up to 4 mA using CW-modified TTF-III couplers and inserting a normal conducting high quantum efficiency cathode using the HZDR-style insert scheme. This talk will present the latest results and an overview of the measurements with the lead cathode cavity and will describe the design and optimization process, the first production results of the current design and an outlook to the further development steps towards the full power version.
*T. Kamps et al., Proceedings of the 2nd International Particle Accelerator Conference, San Sebastián, Spain, 2011.

 






Slides MOIOB02 [7.574 MB]
            
 


 



MOIOB03
SRF Photoemission Electron Guns at BNL: First Commissioning Results
50


 

S.A. Belomestnykh
                       BNL, Upton, Long Island, New York, USA
S.A. Belomestnykh
                       Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, USA

 


 

Funding: Work is supported by Brookhaven Science Associates, LLC under Contract No. DE-AC02-98CH10886 with the U.S. DOE
Two SRF photoemission electron guns are under development at BNL. The first gun operates at 704 MHz and is design to deliver high bunch charge and high average current beams for the R&D ERL accelerator. Its cavity is of an elliptical geometry. The gun cryomodule has been commission without a cathode up to the design voltage of 2 MV. The experiments with a copper cathode are underway. The second gun utilizes a quarter wave resonator geometry with coaxial cathode insert and beam tube RF power coupler. It will be used to produce high bunch charges, but low average beam currents for the coherent electron cooling proof-of-principle experiment. This 112 MHz SRF gun was first tested two years ago. Since then it was rebuilt in a new cryomodule and cryogenically re-tested in late 2012/early 2013, reaching the accelerating gap voltage of 0.9 MV. This paper describes main design features of two SRF guns, presents test results and discusses future plans.

 






Slides MOIOB03 [3.431 MB]
            
 


 



MOIOB04
Commissioning and Operation of DC-SRF Injector
53


 

K.X. Liu, J.E. Chen, L.W. Feng, J.K. Hao, S. Huang, L. Lin, S.W. Quan, F. Wang, Zh.W. Wang, X.D. Wen, H.M. Xie, K. Zhao, F. Zhu
                       PKU, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

As a new and compact injector with medium beam current, the DC-SRF injector at Peking University has been upgraded recently mainly on DC part and heat loading. With a new 20kW solid state RF power source, an improved LLRF system and related diagnostic devices on the new beam line, a series of experiments have been carried out for stably operating the DC-SRF injector at 2K temperature. The description of the system, experiment process and results will be presented.

 






Slides MOIOB04 [4.992 MB]
            
 


 




