













SRF2013 - Table of Session: TUIOC (Basic R&D Bulk Niobium - Processing II)


TUIOC —  Basic R&D Bulk Niobium - Processing II   (24-Sep-13   10:45—12:55)
Chair: E. Kako, KEK, Ibaraki, Japan


Paper
Title
Page



TUIOC01
Review on EP Advances Worldwide
 


 

F. Furuta, B. Elmore, G.H. Hoffstaetter, M. Liepe
                       Cornell University (CLASSE), Cornell Laboratory for Accelerator-Based Sciences and Education, Ithaca, New York, USA

 


 

Electro-Polishing is now applying on SRF Nb cavity world widely as baseline surface treatment technique in many projects, such as ILC, XFEL, JlabUpgrade, and so on. I will give some review on EP as titled, report the achievements and the newest R&D topics of EP.

 






Slides TUIOC01 [20.715 MB]
            
 


 



TUIOC02
Bipolar EP:  Electropolishing without Fluorine in a Water Based Electrolyte
404


 

A.M. Rowe, A. Grassellino
                       Fermilab, Batavia, USA
T.D. Hall, M.E. Inman, S.T. Snyder, E.J. Taylor
                       Faraday Technology, Inc., Clayton, USA

 


 

Funding: Operated by Fermi Research Alliance, LLC under contract No. De-AC02-07CH11359 with the United States Department of Energy
For more than thirty years, preparing superconducting RF cavities for high performance has required the use of dangerous and ecologically damaging chemicals. Reducing the personnel and environmental risks associated with using these chemicals is a priority at Fermilab. Therefore, Fermilab pursued a project to adapt a non-hazardous and relatively benign bipolar electropolishing technique to SRF cavities that Faraday Technology, Inc. developed. Faraday initially developed this electropolishing technique to polish metal alloys used in automotive and semiconductor components as well as medical devices and implants. By modifying the cathodic/anodic interaction via a pulse forward/pulse reverse technique, Fermilab and Faraday Technology demonstrate the capability to polish 1.3 GHz single-cell cavities utilizing an aqueous 10% sulfuric acid electrolyte. We present the development of bipolar EP for single-cell 1.3 GHz cavities and show the results from vertical tests achieving gradients greater than 40 MV/m.

 






Slides TUIOC02 [1.251 MB]
            
 


 



TUIOC03
Fluorine Free Ionic Liquid Electropolishing of Niobium Cavities
410


 

V.B. Pastushenko, O.V. Malkova, V. Palmieri, A.A. Rossi, F. Stivanello, G. Yu
                       INFN/LNL, Legnaro (PD), Italy
G. Yu
                       CIAE, Beijing, People's Republic of China

 


 

Ionic liquids are an emerging breakthrough in green chemistry since the years 2000. In 2006, INFN-LNL was the first to apply a mixture of Choline Chloride and Urea to Niobium electropolishing. It was found that mirror like surfaces could be obtained at temperature higher than 120°C, with high throwing power. Subsequently the process was successfully applied to the electropolishing of a 6 GHz monocell cavity with the addition of sulphamic acid. In this work, we will report an intense investigation of the possible variants of the original recipe. We studied the influence on Niobium surface roughness of several parameters such as: other sulphamic, ammonium and carboxylic containing additives different than sulfamic acid, the possible substitution of Urea with ethylene glycol and malic acid, the current regime; the electrolyte temperature and the cathode shape, rotating horizontal electropolishing versus vertical electropolishing. Due to the cavity hollow cylindrical shape, the electrolyte temperature appeared to be the most crucial parameters among those above mentioned for a uniform dissolution of niobium.

 






Slides TUIOC03 [14.464 MB]
            
 


 



TUIOC04
Analysis of Post-Wet-Chemistry Heat Treatment Effects on Nb SRF Surface Resistance
414


 

P. Dhakal, G. Ciovati, P. Kneisel, G.R. Myneni
                       JLAB, Newport News, Virginia, USA

 


 

Funding: Authored by Jefferson Science Associates, LLC under U.S. DOE Contract No. DE-AC05-06OR23177.
Most of the current R&D in SRF is focused on ways to reduce the construction and operating cost of SRF-based accelerators as well as on the development of new or improved cavity processing techniques. The increase in quality factors is the result of the reduction of the surface resistance of the materials. A recent test [*] on a 1.5 GHz single cell cavity made from ingot niobium of medium purity and heat treated at 1400 C in a ultra-high vacuum induction furnace resulted in a residual resistance of ~ 1nanoohm and a quality factor increasing with field up to ~ 5×1010 at a peak magnetic field of 90 mT. In this contribution, we present some results on the investigation of the origin of the extended Q0-increase, obtained by multiple HF rinses, oxypolishing and heat treatment of “all Nb” cavities.
[*] P. Dhakal et al., Phys. Rev. ST Accel. Beams 16, 042001 (2013).

 






Slides TUIOC04 [4.838 MB]
            
 


 



TUIOC05
Purification of 6 GHz Cavities by Induction Heating
419


 

A.A. Rossi, A. Battistello, M. Checchin, V. Palmieri, S. Stark, F. Stivanello, R.K. Thakur, G. Yu
                       INFN/LNL, Legnaro (PD), Italy

 


 

We have developed an innovative technique for purification of bulk-Nb 6GHz RF cavities under ultra-high vacuum (UHV) system. The main advantages of 6 GHz bulk-Nb cavities are saving cost, materials and time to collect statistics of surface treatments and RF test. Cavities are RF tested before and after high temperature treatment under UHV conditions. Induction heating method is used to anneal the cavity at temperatures higher than 2000°C and close to the melting point of Nb for less than a minute while few seconds at maximum temperature. Before RF test and UHV annealing, the surface treatment processes like tumbling, chemical, electro-chemical (such as BCP and EP), ultrasonic cleaning and high pressure rinsing (HPR) have been employed. This kind of Nb 6 GHz cavity purification allow to reduce hydrogen, oxygen and other elemental impurities content, which effects on cavity Q-factor degradation, by a rapid annealing over 2000°C and a subsequent rapid reduction at room temperature.

 






Slides TUIOC05 [42.171 MB]
            
 


 



TUIOC06
Study on Optimum Electron Beam Welding Condition for Superconducting Accelerating Cavities
424


 

T. Kubo, Y. Ajima, H. Inoue, T. Saeki, K. Umemori, Y. Watanabe, S. Yamaguchi, M. Yamanaka
                       KEK, Ibaraki, Japan
T. Nagata
                       ULVAC, Inc., Tsukuba, Japan

 


 

Optimizations of electron beam welding conditions might solve the quench problems and improve the accelerating field of the superconducting radio-frequency cavity. As a first step toward optimum conditions, basic properties of weld beads are studied by using niobium test pieces. Effects of a combination of a beam generator position and a welding direction on geometries of weld bead are shown. Good parameter-regions for electron beam welding, which yield full penetration welds without holes or weld spatters, are surveyed. Microscopic structures, such as pits or bumps due to poor welds, have greater influence on cavity performances, which are also our research objects. We introduce a model of the magnetic field enhancement at pits, where a formula for a magnetic field enhancement factor is given as a function of parameters that express a geometry of pit. Comparisons between calculations and vertical test results are also shown.

 






Slides TUIOC06 [15.958 MB]
            
 


 




